It's bad enough that you claim to oppose evolution when you don't even know what it is, but to correct someone on logic and get it backwards is really silly. If you limit your claims of creation to the simple assertion, "God did it!" without any specifics as to how, then you have answered no questions and explained nothing. Such empty assertions cannot be proven wrong. Such an assertion says nothing about the methods used by God, and that is what scientists study. There are lots of scientists, evolutionary biologists among them, who believe in a Creator God.
Science is not a matter of proving something right. Scientific theories are explanations of the processes and mechanisms that account for the facts that have been observed. In science, the facts are the observations. The process of science is a process of testing those theories, again and again. The body of scientific knowledge is composed of tested theories that have NOT been shown to be wrong. The more a theory has been tested, the more secure it is, even to the point that it is no longer doubted by those who are informed about the topic. How many physicists do you think there are that doubt the the earth orbits the sun? Is that a fact? How many nuclear physicists doubt the existence of atoms or electrons?
Why is it that all creationists seem to be so ignorant of science that they think a theory is some sort of wild guess and that if they are "proven" they will grow up to be facts? Did it ever occur to any of you that you should actually learn about the topic before you try to instruct others? One thing that is always true of science is that it is predictive - and "God did it" offers no predictions.
However, if you wish to assert that ancient mythology is a historical record of the events, you have made assertions that can be checked. For example, if you assert that the creation took place about 6 to 10 thousand years ago, then we can predict that nothing in the entire universe can be older than that. But clearly there are. And we have observed events that happened longer ago than that. For example, SN 1987 A was a supernova that was observed in 1987 within 3 hours of the first light reaching earth. It's distance from earth has been measured by more than one method. It is 170,000 light years away. In other words, SN 1987 A exploded 170,000 years ago. A creationist's answer is to claim that his god created the light already on its way to earth, complete with the history of an explosion that never happened. Ultimately, creationism falls back on an untestable miracle for which there is no evidence.
So if you want to believe in miracles and mythology, great! But if you wish to argue science, then shouldn't you at least learn what it is? If you claim that a theory is wrong shouldn't you at least know what that theory is?
By the way, I am getting the definition of evolution from memory. I have been using it for many years. It was first stated some 70 or 80 years ago. Anyone who has taken a course in evolutionary biology heard a similar definition the first day of class. Any text on evolutionary biology or that has a chapter on evolution will have a similar definition. It is common knowledge - and that's why I ask, if you don't know what evolution is, how do you know that you are opposed to it?
