First of all why would you want to know if I have an alternative theory to one that is known to be false ? Are you found of false theories?
A true theory would be a replacement not an alternative.
The Wrong Answer Will Always Be The Wrong Answer! 
If evolution was true there would be overwhelming , uncontestable evidence, there is no uncontestable evidence. Little that is any more than pure imagination.
Theories start out as hypothesis and are then subject to experimentation and observation. When they fail they are discarded. For instance spontaneous generation was disproved by Pasteur and discarded as a theory.
Evolution which is not a theory ,although it is called one ,has been falsified nine ways to Sunday. Two of Darwin's own falsifications have come to pass and ignored. The Galopagos Finches have proven to interbreed which destoys a great deal of the so called basis of his theory. "Extinct" animals and plants are found alive and ignored as evidence against evolution. Theories are made to be challenged but evidence against evolution is suppressed.
Evolutionist had to revive spontaneous generation although it is scientifically impossible because without it atheism is impossible. The atheist must have a story no matter how bizzare to justify his faith . Science suffers because of this.
My theory is that this planet is exactly what Einstein said it was , a place designed by a Supreme Being to be inhabited by people.
The evidence is creation itself. If there is a creation there must be a Creator. 
Nothing has ever been observed to self assemble and there is no known process that could accomplish that.
Animals and plants just like the ones alive today have always existed. Many have gone extinct but death is not evidence of evolution.
Human beings are incapable of creating a grain of sand from nothing.
There are grains of sand so there is an intelligence greator than ours that did.
The perfect balance seen in the anthropic principle tells of a Creator.
The unbelievable complexity of the human body makes evolution impossible.
DNA can not exist without proteins. Proteins are coded by the information in the DNA molecule. They had to come into being simultaneously.
Pre-biotic natural selection is impossible , there is no process to affect the evolution of DNA outside of a living organism.
To look at a building is to have absolute empirical proof there was a builder.
To look at creation and say there was no Creator is to enter an intellectually free zone.