So, you think there is a God? Bad design does not equate to no design. It really is a poor argument.
Much of the force of Darwin's arguments deal with bad design. I invite anyone to post any of Darwin's arguments that specifically outline his case against design because of "bad" design. 
That said, consider this, your car is said to operate at 25% fuel efficiency. One could claim then the car is 75% bad design, therefore it is not designed, and if it is, certainly not by anyone of any intelligence.
Your audio CD's have Reed-Solomon error correction because the read/write process is full of errors that need correcting. Cleary this is "bad design" that engineers would create read/write heads that make so many errors in the first place. Same with modems and host of other devices. Clearly if in the remote chance these bad designs are evidence of design, the designers must be clueless!
Poorly designed dramas have villains and heroes. Clearly a drama (even a divine drama) is poorly designed if it has villains in the story. All the characters should be Pollyanna and there should be no great tragedies on the road to a happy ending. Life and the Divine drama, like CD's and cars, are clearly not designed, or at least not designed by anyone with intelligence, because of all the bad design woven into the designs.
The reason audio CD's have so many read/write errors which are corrected Reed-Solomon error correction (somewhat like us reading someone's writing and mentally correcting spelling and grammar errors) is that it is the most optimal way to get as much data on a CD as possible. The tightest packing of data implies the highest amount of errors based on the Shannon capacity theorem.
The Mp3's and JPEGS are even more "error" prone in that they are inexact representations of the original sound or picture, but the goal was not fidelity but compactness.
A similar consideration is for the 75% inefficiency for cars. The goal is for higher acceleration and agility and cost, etc., not fuel efficiency. 
The point is "bad" design, in the grand scheme of things, might not be bad design after all. 
The high rate of sickness and death, the eventual death of the universe as predicted by the 2nd law of thermodynamics are not evidences that the Designer is unwise, any more than the many errors in the read/write process of audio CD suggests the engineers of those devices are incompetent.
Origin of Species Chapter 13:
There is another and equally curious branch of the present subject; namely, the comparison not of the same part in different members of a class, but of the different parts or organs in the same individual. Most physiologists believe that the bones of the skull are homologous with that is correspond in number and in relative connexion with the elemental parts of a certain number of vertebrae. The anterior and posterior limbs in each member of the vertebrate and articulate classes are plainly homologous. We see the same law in comparing the wonderfully complex jaws and legs in crustaceans. It is familiar to almost every one, that in a flower the relative position of the sepals, petals, stamens, and pistils, as well as their intimate structure, are intelligible in the view that they consist of metamorphosed leaves, arranged in a spire. In monstrous plants, we often get direct evidence of the possibility of one organ being transformed into another; and we can actually see in embryonic crustaceans and in many other animals, and in flowers, that organs which when mature become extremely different, are at an early stage of growth exactly alike. 
How inexplicable are these facts on the ordinary view of creation! Why should the brain be enclosed in a box composed of such numerous and such extraordinarily shaped pieces of bone? As Owen has remarked, the benefit derived from the yielding of the separate pieces in the act of parturition of mammals, will by no means explain the same construction in the skulls of birds. Why should similar bones have been created in the formation of the wing and leg of a bat, used as they are for such totally different purposes? Why should one crustacean, which has an extremely complex mouth formed of many parts, consequently always have fewer legs; or conversely, those with many legs have simpler mouths? Why should the sepals, petals, stamens, and pistils in any individual flower, though fitted for such widely different purposes, be all constructed on the same pattern ? 
On the theory of natural selection, we can satisfactorily answer these questions.
Homology was a pre-darwinian idea with the term coined by Owen who rather despised Darwin and his ideas.
Darwin tries to argue why a Designer would not use the same for the same function. He says homology is evidence of an unwise design. The premise is a Creator wouldn't be so inefficient.
But, unless one has a handle on the teleological goal, one is free to fabricate all manner of "bad design" arguments (for example read/write errors in audio CD's or fuel inefficient cars). 
The Biotic Message Theory suggest the teleological goal for biotic reality is to communicate to humans that there is one Designer and author of life, and that life could not have evolved. Like a great novel, the "imperfections" of biology are part of a larger plot.
It is turning out, Darwin's argument from homology is a concept in crisis.