While that may be true of life in general, all it really logically entails is that SOME – not all – organisms throughout all of life’s history were able to reproduce. And at a smaller scale, it does not apply to any individual organism: it doesn’t tell us that in order for organism X to be considered living that it must reproduce (take for example, mules). 
Must All Living Organisms Die?
An implicit assumption in the last several arguments is that all living things must die. After all, if a living organism didn’t die, then it wouldn’t need to reproduce in order to persist, even for 4 billion years. We need to ask, “Does this assumption of universal death hold?” Yes, well, at least for all instances of life that we currently know of. Thus, it is a conclusion based on induction, not on necessity. 
Consider a species capable of repairing itself indefinitely. Sound far fetched? Well, we humans ourselves are desiring to do just that. And to an extremely limited degree, we have succeeded. Of course, we still have an enormous distance left before fully succeeding, but if we were to eventually do so, then could it really be said that reproduction is a requirement to consider humans as being alive? No. We’d be like “immortal mules”: we’d be alive, yet incapable of reproducing … but unlike mules, we wouldn’t need to be continually replaced by reproduction. After all, we could stop reproducing (women might really like that idea!) and instead focus on repairing those that currently exist.
Perhaps, though, we “immortal mules”, by simply repairing ourselves and maintaining the status quo, would still somehow die: after all, nature shows us that those organisms that don’t adapt to the ever changing conditions on Earth just don’t last. Perhaps the changes in our environment would be too dramatic to be handled by simply replacing what is damaged with a new part. This line of reasoning fails since our intent is not simply to repair ourselves, but to improve ourselves as well. Humans intend to direct their own bodily evolution, either via installed hardware or through genetic manipulations, adapting our bodies to changes in the environment. 
And if we ever reach this ultimate goal (is it a good goal?!), then we could save energy by modifying our bodies to eliminate the no-longer-required processes involved in reproduction . 
Conclusion
Based on the above lines of reason, I assert that reproduction is not an absolute requirement of life: that something could be considered to be alive without it necessarily needing to be able to reproduce.