I agree with you to some extent. First, the Mr. Hayes was convicted of this crime before the Lautenberg Amendment was passed. Secondly, Virginian law (where the case originates from) makes no distinction between a domestic relationship (that which he was tried and convicted of) and between the agressor.
Quote majority ruling:
A domestic relationship, although it must be established beyond a reasonable doubt in a §922(g)(9) firearms possession prosecution, need not be a defining element of the predicate offense. Pp. 4–13.
Bulldung.
If congress wanted to make it simpler they would have just said battery instead of domestic violence. How the heck they came up with that is beyond me. They basically expanded the meaning of the Lautenberg Amendment, which is a big NO NO! I think that is what Justice Roberts was saying in his dissent.
Quote Justice Roberts dissent:
That reading does not require the specified domestic relationship in clause (ii) to be an element of the predicate misdemeanor statute. Individuals convicted under generic use-of-force statutes containing no reference to domestic violence would there-fore be subject to prosecution under §922(g)(9).
....
The majority also points out that interpreting “commit-ted by” to modify the “use” of force would render the word“committed” superfluous. That may be so, but as shown, reading “committed by” to modify “offense” has its own flaws. All this goes to show that the statute is not an example of elegant syntax under either reading. The majority properly acknowledges that, under its view, the statutory language reflects “less-than-meticulous drafting” and “syntactical awkwardness,” and “is not a model of the careful drafter’s art.” Ante, at 6, 12, 13. I am willing to acknowledge the same with respect to my reading. But I conclude from such reciprocal shortcomings that the text is at least ambiguous.
Which is why this law needs to be rewritten.
There is a lot more, but I find the majority decision hard to believe. It just doesn't make sense (well to me that is.)
BTW, this by no means I support Domestic Violent offenders, etc. On the contrary, I believe they should lose their gun rights if convicted of domestic violence, BUT, this decision is wrong. The pieces do not fit together. That is Mr. Hayes was convicted of battery, not domestic violence. The government screwed up, so he should be walking free right now.