To step in for Duck,
Why would he follow a 74 year old with parkinson's if he weren't the pope? We wouldn't. The whole point is that he is the pope. We look to the pope to be the messenger of Christ and thus an authority on faith and morals. (By the way he's 84  years old and I think he gives a powerful message about the value of life and purpose in the elderly.) So we don't just follow any 74 year old with parkinson's. We follow the one who is the 264th successor of Peter who was appointed by Christ to lead his Church.
But to address your assertion on the bible and abortion:
Nowhere in the Bible is abortion specifically prohibited but the foundation of Christian argument from a biblical perspective is the fact that the unborn being is established as a person from the moment of creation. The unborn being is considered a child. Thus the commandment, "Thou shalt not kill" applies. Check out some of these verses as a start: Exodus 21:22-25, Psalm 139:13-16, Psalm 71:6, Deutoronomy 30:19, Luke 1:15 and 1:41, Isaiah 49:1, Jeremiah1:5, 1 Corinthians 6:19-20  
It is also of note that it was, in a sense, a curse to be barren in the Jewish/Christian community. Children were thought of as a blessing from God Psalm 127:3-5, Matthew 18:10  (there are many other indications of this as well). An attempt at abortion would go against the prevailing culture and mindset.
The early Church also spoke out against abortion. Look at this link to see excerpts of the Church Fathers on the subject: 
http://www.catholic.com/library/Abortion.asp  
Keep in mind that not all Christian practices and beliefs are explicity spelled out in scripture.
In discussing abortion in the light of Christianity (including scripture), there are some essentials that must be noticed. The Bible unequivocally "tells" us that abortion is wrong and in stark contrast to the Christian message. It does that in the nativity of the Gospel of Luke and it does that in the Passion narratives of the four Gospels. The Christian story is about birth, creation, joy, and perseverance. It is also about sacrifice for others and giving life. 
Father Frank Pavone illustrates this by describing a remarkable contrast in thought on abortion between abortion supporters and Christ. 
Abortion supporters say, "This is my body, I can do with it what I want. I can destroy others to preserve my life. I can destroy others so that I may live as I want. Do not interfere with me."
Whereas, Christ says, "This is my body, which is given up for you." 
"This is my body"--same words but much different in intent, in action, in charity, in love, in faith, in hope... Jesus gives his body away so that others live. Abortion proponents cling to their own bodies so that others die.