But in the context of Debater’s usual arguments on this board, one might presume that he is trying to imply that somehow a “side” that he favors is not being given a fair hearing. It seems to be an echo of the oft expressed creationist cry that it is only fair that if a scientific theory that they oppose on religious grounds is presented in science class, i.e., evolution, then their side should also be presented on a equal basis with science.
I thought it might be of some interest to understand Jefferson’s motivations behind the above quote.
After Jefferson left office and retired to Monticello he continued to do business with a bookseller in Philadelphia named N. G. Dufief. Apparently on some occasions, Jefferson would purchase books that were sent directly to him at Monticello and Mr. Dufief would act as Jefferson’s agent for payment. Jefferson would then, from time to time, settle accounts with Mr. Dufief.
That seems to have been the case with a book by M. de Becourt entitled, Sur la Création du Monde, un Systême d'Organisation Primitive. Jefferson had seen notice of the book’s publication and presumed it to be “…either a geological or astronomical work.” He ordered it to be sent to him upon publication with instructions that Mr. Dufief be contacted for payment. Thus, Mr. Dufief became involved with a book that he had never seen. Mr. Dufief extended credit to Mr. Jefferson, as was his custom, and paid for the book.
But such little technicalities never stopped the forces of good in the community. From the title alone criminal charges were brought against Mr. Dufief for crimes against religion. I do not know to outcome of the case but presume that Mr. Dufief was acquitted. The quote that Debater got almost correct is from a letter that Jefferson wrote to Dufief about the matter. At the end of the letter Jefferson discusses settling accounts by adding the unknown price of Newton’s Principia to his balance of $4.93 and sending it along to Philadelphia.
Here are Jefferson’s comments on the case of Mr. Dufief from a letter of April 19, 1814.
