Really . 
"The voice of one crying in the wilderness: "Prepare the way of the LORD; Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. (NKJV)." Isaiah 40:3 
"In those days John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea, and saying, 'Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand!' For this is he who was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah, saying: 'The voice of one crying in the wilderness: Prepare the way of the LORD . . . (NKJV).'" Matt. 3:1-3 
John the Baptist came before Jesus Christ and let people know that He was coming. What a fascinating period of history. This prediction was given by the prophet Isaiah, 740-680 B.C. History tell us that John the Baptist did in fact come preaching repentance and baptism. 
"But you, Bethlehem Ephrathah, though you are small among the clans of Judah, out of you will come . . . one who will be ruler over Israel, whose origins are from of old, from ancient times (NIV)." Micah 5:2 
" After Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea, during the time of King Herod . . . (NIV)" Matt. 2:1 
Micah, 735 - 710 B.C., tells us that the Christ or Messiah will be born in Bethlehem. It is recognized by all that Jesus was indeed born in Bethlehem. 
Therefore the Lord Himself will give you a sign: Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a Son, and shall call His name Immanuel (NKJV)." Isaiah 7:14 
"Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take to you Mary your wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. And she will bring forth a Son, and you shall call His name JESUS, for He will save His people from their sins . . . His name [is] Immanuel (NKJV)" Matt. 1:20-23. 
"This is what the LORD says: "A voice is heard in Ramah, mourning and great weeping, Rachel weeping for her children and refusing to be comforted, because her children are no more (NIV)." Jer. 31:15 
"When Herod realized that he had been outwitted by the Magi, he was furious, and he gave orders to kill all the boys in Bethlehem and its vicinity who were two years old and under . . .then the [prophecy] was fulfilled (NIV)." Matt. 2:16-4:1 
Through the prophet Jeremiah, 627 - 580 B.C., God indicated that some of Israel's children would be killed at the coming of the Messiah. 
"When Israel was a child, I loved him, And out of Egypt I called My son." Hosea 11:1 
"Now when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying, "Arise, take the young Child and His mother, flee to Egypt, and stay there until I bring you word; for Herod will seek the young Child to destroy Him. When he arose, he took the young Child and His mother by night and departed for Egypt, and was there until the death of Herod, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying, "Out of Egypt I called My Son." (NKJV).'" Matt. 2:13-15 
This prophecy was given by the prophet Hosea around 750 B.C. This amazing prophecy says that Messiah would come from Egypt. Jesus had to be born into the family of David, born of a virgin, born in Bethlehem, children would die and Jesus come out of Egypt. The prophet must have wondered why Messiah would come out of Egypt. This did not fit the concept the Jews had about Messiah. This is God's plan and these are God's prophecies. 
"They divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots (NKJV)." Ps. 22:18 
"Then they crucified Him, and divided His garments, casting lots, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet: "They divided My garments among them, And for My clothing they cast lots (NKJV)." Matt. 27:35 
After the soldiers crucified Jesus (nailed Him to the cross), they gambled for Jesus' clothes. Little did they know they were fulfilling a 1000 years old prophecy. The prediction was provided by God through King David. 
"I will pour on the house of David and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem the Spirit of grace and supplication; then they will look on Me whom they pierced (NKJV)." Zech. 12:10 
"But one of the soldiers pierced His side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out.
For these things [occurred] that the Scripture should be fulfilled . . . "They shall look on Him whom they pierced (NKJV)." John 19:34-37 
Another isolated event predicted in 520-512 B.C. In A.D. 33, some soldier thrust his spear into the side of Jesus to make sure that He would die before 6 pm that evening. Little did he realize that Jesus was already dead (John 19:30) and that he was fulfilling a 480 year old prophecy from Zechariah. 
"Even my own familiar friend in whom I trusted, who ate my bread, has lifted up His heel against me (NKJV)." Ps. 41:9 
"Judas Iscariot . . . betrayed Him." Matt. 10:4
"that the scripture might be fulfilled, 'He who eats My bread has lifted up his heel against Me (NKJV)." John 13:21-28 
This prediction was recorded by King David, 1020 - 970 B.C. It refers to the Messiah's betrayal by His friends. Judas is well known as the one who agreed to help the Romans capture Jesus at a cost of 30 pieces of silver. Peter was another who betrayed Jesus three times. 
"See, your king comes to you, righteous and having salvation, gentle and riding on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey (NIV)." Zech 9:9 
"And the disciples . . . brought the donkey and the colt, and laid on them garments, on which he sat. And most of the multitude spread their garments in the road, and others were cutting branches from the trees and spreading them in the road (NIV)." Matt. 21:6-8 
Zechariah, 480 - 470 B.C., stated that Messiah, the king, would come riding on a donkey. Donkeys were sometimes ridden in times of peace (Judges 5:10) but stallions were normally used by kings. This is unexpected by those looking for a military Messiah. 
If you want more just ask.
