Yes you did, your very own god that fits what you wish to believe.
It is not the God of Abraham,Issac and Jacob.
He believed Moses was a real person and Genesis was history .
Mat 8:4 And Jesus saith unto him, See thou tell no man; but go thy way, shew thyself to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them. 
Mat 17:3 And, behold, there appeared unto them Moses and Elias talking with him. 
Mat 17:4 Then answered Peter, and said unto Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here: if thou wilt, let us make here three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias. 
Mat 19:7 They say unto him, Why did Moses then command to give a writing of divorcement, and to put her away? 
Mat 19:8 He saith unto them, Moses because of the hardness of your hearts suffered you to put away your wives: but from the beginning it was not so. 
Mat 22:24 Saying, Master, Moses said, If a man die, having no children, his brother shall marry his wife, and raise up seed unto his brother. 
Mat 23:2 Saying, The scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat
Mar 1:44 And saith unto him, See thou say nothing to any man: but go thy way, shew thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing those things which Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them. 
Mar 7:10 For Moses said, Honour thy father and thy mother; and, Whoso curseth father or mother, let him die the death: 
Mar 9:4 And there appeared unto them Elias with Moses: and they were talking with Jesus. 
Mar 9:5 And Peter answered and said to Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here: and let us make three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias. 
Mar 10:2 And the Pharisees came to him, and asked him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife? tempting him. 
Mar 10:3 And he answered and said unto them, What did Moses command you? 
Mar 10:4 And they said, Moses suffered to write a bill of divorcement, and to put her away. 
Mar 10:5 And Jesus answered and said unto them, For the hardness of your heart he wrote you this precept. 
Mar 12:26 And as touching the dead, that they rise: have ye not read in the book of Moses, how in the bush God spake unto him, saying, I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? 
Yes the God of the Bible did not see Moses as a mythical science fiction writer as you do.
Why do you consider yourself a Christian if you consider Jesus Christ a liar and a fool?
You may notice I have not used the Old Testement at all here. You have to dismiss the entire Bible out of hand to believe in evolution.
It is a conscious choice you make every day.