Where to start. The term Marriage appears 41 times in the NIV (New International Version). The term Marry appears 42 times in the NIV. But there are some relevant verses that speak to the rightness or wrongness of marriage in different situations; most of which refer to moral issues which is something people in this generation don't want to consider at all. For example, here the bible speaks about keeping the marriage BED pure and undefiled. 
Hbr 13:4 Marriage {is to be held} in honor among all, and the {marriage} bed {is to be} undefiled; for fornicators and adulterers God will judge.
And here is where God consecrated the relationship (Marriage) between Man and Woman through Adam and Eve. He also gave Man dominion over all the animals of the World at this time. 
No where does the bible refer to gay marriage anywhere in the positive sense as the concept was never raised or dreamt of by anyone in the ancient world, homosexuals included. Only in this generation have the morals and values of society become so reprobate that these various unnatural forms of sexual perversions are seen as right and normal.
Gen 1:28 Then God blessed them(Adam and Eve), and God said to them, "Be fruitful and multiply; fill the earth and subdue it; have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over every living thing that moves on the earth."
Exd 22:19 "Whoever has sex with an animal shall surely be put to death.
Sex with animals was once a death penalty offense. Today, we have web sites promoting it.
Lev. 20:13 "'If a man lies with a man as one lies with a woman, both of them have done what is detestable. They must be put to death; their blood will be on their own heads.
ROM 1:26 Because of this, God gave them over to shameful lusts. Even their 
women exchanged natural relations for unnatural ones.
27 In the same way the men also abandoned natural relations with women and were inflamed with lust for one another. Men committed indecent acts with other men, and received in themselves the due penalty for their perversion.
32 Although they know God's righteous decree that those who do such things 
deserve death, they not only continue to do these very things but also 
approve of those who practice them.
Now all one must do to rationally determine that God, through His word condemns the concept of homosexual marriage is to look at his attitude on homosexuality. If God considers homosexuality so unnatural an act and a death penalty offense under the OT Law, do you really believe that He thinks gay marriage is right, acceptable or normal?
