Nobody but you has suggested that the schools are out any money except for you, and you have presented no evidence whatsoever that they are. You ignore the LIKELY scenarios and immediately jump to an extremely UNLIKELY one that fits your agenda...that they used school facilities without paying for them.
Our local school district rents out school buses to groups and rents building facilities out for events all the time. It is smart....they have the resources on hand and it provides a little extra money for the district. Granted that explanation does not fit your agenda, and it would be much easier for you to make your point if we all ignored the most LIKELY solution and instead accepted your EXTREMELY UNLIKELY solution at face value, but you cant actually expect people with any intelligence at all to do that. 
As far as the cops go....have you ever seen a protest where there were NOT cops on hand? I certainly never have. Even when Fred Phelps and his little band of sickos protests a funeral, the police are there to make sure that nobody starts handing out beat downs. One of the beautiful things about America is that you have the right to protest, and the police have a responsibility to protect you while you do it. The idea that the DC police would not have protected the BOA executive is another completely unsupported assumption put forth here and to some degree by the author of the article and frankly it is a particularly ignorant one. The author of the article contends that if the protesters had decided to burn the guys house there is nothing the DC police could have done to stop it since they were outside their jurisdiction AFTER they talk about the fact that there is a cross jurisdictional agreement in place. Frankly you would have to have the intelligence of a house plant to follow that line of reasoning.
Your take on this entire thing is ridiculous and unamerican. There is no evidence whatsoever that anything improper took place here. What happened is that a bunch of protesters who were careful not to break the law went and told a guy that he is a huge XXXXX. The DC PD sent 2 units to ensure that nobody was hurt during the course of the protest. The local police also sent units in response to calls from neighbors. The local police stayed until the end, but no arrests were made because, as they noted in their statement, the protesters were careful not to break any laws. 
I believe that you, sir, are little more than a partisan hack bending reality to fit your agenda.