Forwarded to me by one of my co-workers;
"HR 45 Blair Holt Firearm Licensing & Record of Sales Act of 2009
Please send this to everybody on your list...
this is Obama gun control by secrecy.
Very Important for you to be aware of a new bill HR 45 introduced into the House. 
This is the Blair Holt Firearm Licensing & Record of Sale Act of 2009.
We just learned yesterday about this on the Peter Boyles radio program. 
Even gun shop owners didn't know about this because it is flying under the radar.
To find out about this - go to any government website and type in HR 45 or Google HR 45 Blair Holt Firearm Licensing & Record of Sales Act of 2009. You will get all the information.
Basically this would make it illegal to own a firearm - any rifle with a clip or ANY pistol unless:
.It is registered
.You are fingerprinted
.You supply a current Driver's License
.You supply your Social Security #
.You will submit to a physical & mental evaluation at any time of their choosing
.Each update - change or ownership through private or public sale must be reported and costs $25.
- Failure to do so you automatically lose the right to own a firearm and are subject up to a year in jail.
.There is a child provision clause on page 16 section 305 stating a child-access provision. Gun must be locked and inaccessible to any child under 18. 
The Government would have the right to come and inspect that you are storing your gun safely away from accessibility to children and fine is punishable for up to 5 yrs. in prison.
If you think this is a joke - go to the website and take your pick of many options to read this...
OpenCongress - Text of H.R.45 as Introduced in House Blair Holt's Firearm Licensing and Record of Sale Act of 2009
It is long and lengthy. But, more and more people are becoming aware of this. Pass the word along.
Any hunters in your family - pass this along.
He suggests the best way to fight this is to tell all your friends about it and "spring into action". Also, he suggests we all join a pro-gun group like the Colorado Rifle Association, hunting associations, gun clubs and especially the NRA.
This is just a "termite" approach to complete confiscation of guns and disarming of our society to the point we have no defense - chip away a little here and there until the goal i s accomplished before anyone realizes it.
(Did Obama promise transparency? It seems his motives are more and more transparent while his methods are hidden in back rooms.)
This is one to act on whether you own a gun or not."