I would like to propose reasons that the theory of evolution is in jeopardy. First, you must realize that evolution is still a theory. Otherwise it would be called the Law of Evolution. We have the laws of physics, the laws of chemistry, the laws of mathematics, the laws of thermodynamics. These are all proved and documented and provide the basis of all our technology. They are true and wholeheartedly accepted by everyone. They are the Laws of the Universe. For evolution to become a law, it must fall in line with the other laws. There can be no contradictions. The truth must be the truth. 
The Second Law of Thermodynamics states that Entropy must remain the same or increase. Entropy is the tendency toward chaos. Increasing entropy means increasing chaos. The universe is winding down on an irreversible path. Every process that takes place in nature, whether mechanical, electrical, chemical, or biological is winding down, becoming more chaotic. All processes will finally cease, and the Universe will stop. That is a scientific fact. 
If the Universe is running down, becoming more chaotic all the time, how is it possible for any material to suddenly become more orderly, more organized, more complex. Scientists say, that random encounters of atoms, molecules, joining and splitting, eventually create order. I'm sorry, that's in direct contradiction to the Second Law. It would also violate the statisically probability of such an occurrence even over billions of years, especially in light of the complexity of organized biological systems and processes. 
Which brings me to the second reason that evolution is in jeopardy: there is a huge difference between living and non-living things. There is a gigantic leap forward required to produce even a single-celled amoeba from a goo that contains all the elements required to make an amoeba. The goo is total chaos. The amoeba is a highly organized and complex living creature. The odds of random mixing by weather, earthquake, etc. that would produce an amoeba would be one in a billion billion billion. It's not going to happen.
Thirdly, look at DNA. Scientists are mapping the human genome, the very basis of life itself. What are they finding? Recorded information that literally contains the blueprint of a human being. Information so complex and so vast that it is taking literally years to decipher. And every bit of the human body carries DNA. Theorically, it is possible to take this blueprint and create a whole new human. How can a living creature so complex be an accident of nature? 
Fourth, how do you explain human consciousness? How does this highly complex body of flesh and blood with its organic brain have the ability to not only be aware of the world, but also be aware of himself as a unique person? There is no biological or medical reason determined so far, despite decades of study. What freak accident could possibly have occurred to give the first descendant of apes the first spark of awareness? 
