But it does have an answer, as long as (and I see no reason to infer otherwise) 'organisation' is defined, as are many scientific concepts, as a human-imposed description of the sum of a multitude of physical cause/effect phenomena. Remember when we argued about entropy? I essentially stated (or admitted, if you want to see it that way) that the concepts that we label 'entropy', 'order', 'disorder' and even 'particle' are human-imposed abstracts applied for ease of understanding. 
Again referencing a point I have previously made, the maths that backs up the areas of physics (which necessarily includes chemistry/biology) that are confirmed with near-certitude, is equally as-certain-as-possible, but is impossible to satisfactorily translate into ordinary language; hence the terms employed that, relative to the maths, are so vague and easily misinterpretable. My best example is the uncertainty principle, which can be explained in words, but can only be shown to be an uncontrevertible fact by using maths. The great thing about the UP is that it is not even necessary to perform a real experiment; given certain parameters (already known) the UP is inevitable.
The POV I am justifying here is one that does not even begin to reference such terms as 'organisation' and what may 'drive' it. This may be a personal thing, but ideally IMHO the scientific method should never assume 'organisation' or 'drives', it should only look at facts and figures. After this analysis has been done mathematically, there may (and indeed always are) patterns discernible that we, humans, can label 'organisation' and 'drives', but these things do not exist in and of themselves. They are abstracts, simplifications, words used so that we do not have to talk in complex equations.
Given all this, when we come to the Four Fundamental Forces, we do actually know (ie we are almost certain) that these phenomena are a part of the world of facts and figures, not part of the world of human-imposed concepts. My best supporting argument for this is that the FFFs cannot (yet) be further reduced to anything simpler. There are plenty of other 'forces' such as kinetic energy, potential energy etc that derive their very existence from the FFFs. The FFFs are anything but non-material, as they are intermediated by known, defined, observed particles/quanta or in the case of gravity, the medium of spacetime. The only confusion comes when trying to determine "What is a particle? What is spacetime?" Regardless of the answers, surely we have to assume that particles and spacetime are material, for if not, then nothing is.
