Well Ladywolf, that is really more of an argument than it is an honest question. If marriage was truly a private affair that impacted nobody outside the couple themselves, then, yes, that question would be valid. But that is a very shallow understanding and a very uninformed understanding of the nature of marriage, because marriage is just as much — if not more so — about the community as it is about the couple themselves. 
But it's not the community that gets married.
No, it's not the community that gets married, but it's the community that enforces marriage and develops marriage. We need to understand that marriage is just as much a social norm — a social ideal — of the kind of behavior that we expect and need for a healthy vibrant society; as much as it is about the emotional commitment of two people.
One of the biggest issues is the social role of marriage. Marriage domesticates men. Men who are not attached permanently to a woman are men that will practice and engage in socially unhealthy behaviors at a much higher level. 
How will same-sex marriage effect the concept of "marriage"? Marriage becomes reduced down to nothing, because the moral argument for same-sex marriage is the same moral argument for group marriage, for polygamy, and it is going to be impossible to deny polygamous groups — and group marriage people — who come forth in all sincerity and say, "If you can't restrict marriage to only couples of opposite sex, then you can't restrict marriage to only two people." They are all very much interwoven.
The three things that you lose are: 1) the domesticating influence of marriage on men; 2) the protective influence of marriage upon women from being victimized and objectified by men; and 3) it provides mothers and fathers for children. 
When monogamy is lost as an ideal, the idea that a man should commit himself and forego all other sexual relationships but (the one with) his wife, then women become commodities to be used and collected by men. When committing yourself to a woman and subjugating your sexual desires for the sake of that woman — when that becomes just one lifestyle choice among many, it is devastating to a culture.
Same-sex "marriage" also denies every child it touches access to either a mother or father. It is never compassionate to intentionally deny a child either a mother or father.