No, they are the same. God diliberately kept information fro them because He knew they would not understand, just like you would deliberately keep information not pertinent to you children because they will not understand. How we came about wasn't as pertinent as why and who, so thats what He told us. It could kinda be like the stork. You know your kids won't understand (and don't yet need to) about sex and child birth, so when your five year old comes up and asks where do babies come from SOME parents (not all, I know I won't, but SOME do) say that the stork brings babies. They put a myth in place of a fact that the children don't need to know. Furthermore, even if God did explain evolution, if the men He explained it to didn't understand. Which they probably wouldn't have seeing as they had no sense of time, biology, genetics, or even basic anatomy (all pertinent to evolution) then they would have transcribed something VERY different. If God told them "In the beginning I created the Heavens and the Earth in the first billion years, I said let there be light and I caused a tiny powerful ball of matter with an enormous mass to explode and with that came the heavens and the Earth. At first the Earth w" Lets see primitive man wouldnt have understood 'billion years' 'tiny ball of matter with an enormous mass' 'explode.' So what do we have left. "In the beginning God created the heavens and the Earth, He said Let there be Light and there was." I know that isn't the Bible verse, but do you see my point. Even if God didn't as you say 'diliberately' (which in my opinion implies malice, but you may use that word in reference to God if you wish to do so) keep the information from us. In the minds of man it could have been simplified enormously to a point of mythological proportions. A modern day example would be the theory of relativity. Have you ever had it explained to you. I have. It is extremely complicated and few people REALLY understand it. Anyway, when my father explained it to me when I was about 16, we talked about it for several hours (literally) and through all his complicated explanations and answers to my questions, my brain pretty much reduced it to "As you approach the speed of light time slows down compared to things not going that fast. But that does not mean when you slow back down you will not return to their same 'time.' Time IS relative." Now I still don't understand how time is relative or how time would slow down as you reach the speed of light, or even how you would return to their same 'time.' I can simply regurgitate the facts. Man back then wouldn't have understand evolution so it would have been simplified similarly. Simplify it to just the facts, ignore the how and put it into a time frame that you can understand and thats good enough.
