12 dead, 31 wounded in Fort Hood shooting  Slain suspect at Texas base reportedly identified as Maj. Malik Nadal Hasan  © 2009 WorldNetDaily  An Army soldier opened fire at Fort Hood in Texas, killing 11 soldiers and wounding 31, before he was killed by a local police officer.  The Army identified the suspected gunman as Maj. Malik Nadal Hasan. A local radio reporter said Hasan is a Muslim convert.  Retired Maj. Gen. Robert Scales told Fox News the massacre did not appear to be the act of a mentally ill or extremely stressed person.   This was a deliberate act of execution,  he said.  The shooter was immediately killed, according to Lt. Gen. Bob Cone, a base spokesman, and two additional suspects, also soldiers, have been apprehended.  One incident, at about 1:30 p.m. Central Time, took place at a medical processing center, a second took place at a theater on the base, Lt Col Nathan Banks at the Pentagon told the Associated Press.  The base, about 60 miles from Austin, and two area school districts are on lockdown.  Greg Schannep, an aide to U.S. Rep. John Carter, said he was on the Army post to attend a graduation service, the Austin American-Statesman newspaper reported. As he neared the entrance of a building where the service was being held, he said, a soldier with blood on his uniform ran past him and said a man was shooting.  Schannep told the paper the shootings appeared to have occurred in a complex near the theater where the service was scheduled.  CNN reported President Obama has been advised of the shooting. White House press secretary Robert Gibbs said the president is being kept updated. CNN said staffers have gathered in the situation room, possibly as a precautionary measure since details are still emerging.  The FBI reportedly was en route.  Sgt. Major Jamie Posten of the Fort Hood public affairs office said shooting took place  near the soldier readiness processing center, where soldiers cycle through as they prepare to deploy.   Posten said soldiers go to the center up to 60 days before deployment to begin the process of vaccinations and other preparation.   It's still developing. We're trying to figure out what took place on the ground,  he said.  Fort Hood, home to at least 4,929 active duty officers and 45,414 enlisted, is the largest U.S. military complex in the world. Another 9,000 civilians work on the base.  More to come ...  12 dead, 31 wounded in Fort Hood shooting