You mean what you got was an eye opening shocker into the world of leftist propaganda, and I can see that like a good sheeple you swallowed it hook line and sinker. Thankfully though, most people chose not to submit themselves to his brand of commentary and stayed away from the drivel you will so easily endorse because the movie tanked. Didn't you notice how empty it was in there for an opening weekend?  Socialism and Christian-Bashing Crash at Box Office  by John Nolte  Tough times for leftie Hollywood. Nothing?s gone right this week. None of this is their fault, of course. In order to understand that it might not be a good idea to rally around a child rapist, bash religion in a religious country or trash capitalism in a capitalist country you have to live in the real world  Steve Mason:  Michael Moore?s CAPITALISM tanks!  Ricky Gervais has launched his second consecutive box office bomb as The Invention of Lying (Warner Bros) only mustered $2.2M or so to start the 3-day. The comedy should finish #5 with approximately $6.5M for the weekend.  But the biggest disappointment of the weekend is Michael Moore?s Capitalism: A Love Story (Overture). After a $57K per theatre average on 4 screens last weekend, the picture broke to a wider 962 locations with terrible results. The ?documentary? only sold an estimated $1.3M in tickets to start the weekend, and it will finish at about $3.9M for a PTA of less than $4,000. That soft opening will almost certainly make Capitalism Moore?s weakest-grossing movie since 2002?s Bowling for Columbine ($21.5M domestic gross).As if all this isn?t enough for our friends on the left to take in, you have $800 billion spent to get us to 9.8% unemployment, the *poof* of the public option, and a nine-month World Apology Tour resulting in Rio getting the Olympics.  And what can we expect as a result of these ?teachable moments??  What?s that phrase again?? Oh, yeah: More Of The Same.  Big Hollywood Blog Archive Socialism and Christian-Bashing Crash at Box Office