lol....moths emerged with the correct colors to match their backgrounds. It has nothing at all to do with what moths might get eaten by birds or which don't. They're just like butterflies:  http://unisci.com/stories/20021/0313021.htm  Monteiro noted that the differences in wing patterns differentiate one species of butterfly from another and are used by males and females to determine with which individuals to mate.  They also have been shown to serve an adaptive purpose, as demonstrated by numerous studies focusing on seasonal changes in wing coloration of individuals in a species.  For instance, Monteiro said, the darker wing patterns that show up in butterflies that emerge in the spring serve to warm up the butterfly faster, whereas butterflies that emerge in the summer have lighter colors.   Also, many butterflies that emerge in the wet season in the tropics have large, conspicuous marks on their wings that deflect the attacks of predators while the butterflies are actively finding mates and laying eggs, while the dry-season cohorts are very cryptic, trying to blend in with their environment and not attract any attention from predators until the rains arrive again,  she said.  The authors note that what's not known about wing patterns in butterflies are the genetic mechanisms that result in the great variety of patterns that exist and an understanding of how those mechanisms have evolved through time.  ------------------------------  The pepprered moth story is the biggest myth of all time. moths emerge physiologically according to background, predators and other external conditions:  http://ourfcs.friendscentral.org/mot...yphenism1.html  Many species of moths and butterflies are known to exhibit a seasonal polymorphism, where one form predominates at one time of year and an alternative form occurs in a different season. Some species also show differences in adult size between two seasonal forms. In some cases, the change in seasonal markings has been shown to correlate with temperature; in these instances it is believed that one color form can provide more rapid or effective solar heating through a larger proportion of darker patterns. In other cases, the seasonal forms are believed to be connected to a more effective cryptic ability according to the nature of available background surfaces.