Chemist 99a: [quotre]Ok then remove the brain and see whats left of the mind.[/quote]  Bertvan: Would a memory exist without a language to describe it?  Chemist99a:  Bertvan: I would not discourage any scientist from searching for volition in computers. I would not urge that such scientists be excluding from science for continuing such a search. I don?t even think such a search ?endangers science?. In the meantime it is too bad materialists don?t feel the same way about scientists investigating the role of immaterial forces such as volition and memory in living processes.  Chemist 99a:  Bertvan: I?ve never seen a nonliving process exhibit volition, and I see evidence that all living organisms, including plants and sponges show some limited ability to respond creatively to stimuli. More from the article by WascallyWabbit:  Intelligent Design  Bertvan As unlikely as the notion of ?natural selection? organizing genetic accidents into intelligently functioning systems, it is the only origin of biological novelty materialists have been able to come up with, the only explanation that doesn?t include some form of volition and purposeful response.  Bertvan: (I?ve substituted EAM for ?Darwinism? because today few Darwinists would acknowledge that adaptations originate in living organisms rather than their genomes. Most Darwinists are still stuck on versions of genetic accidents.) All organisms some ability to respond to stimuli. I agree that plants and sponges seem to have a lesser choice of optional responses than more complex organisms. Yet even they are capable of some creative response. I?ve seen evidenceconvincing to me that even single cultured cells are capable of some limited free response. However the options available to a DNA molecule must be miniscule. Yet the Darwinists seem to grant pieces of DNA the power to ?selfishly? control entire organisms.  Bertvan: Every living organism and every cell of every living organism has some limited ability to change and adapt in response to stimuli, intelligently and purposefully. Once volition is acknowledged as an aspect of living systems, the mechanisms may be found.  Bertvan: Darwin may have been skeptical or reductionism, but twentieth century biologists who called themselves Darwinists were not. Twenty-first century biologists will turn away from materialistic reductionism and investigate the non materialistic role of consciousness, volition, memory and information -- none of which take up space.