Oh wait, I have...I was a creationist for 18 years of my life. 10 of which I was coherent enough to understand some aspects of science and about 5 of which I understood the more complex ones. I know all the Creationist arguments, I have used them. And I used to be a darn good creationist debater...I could almost convince atheists who just didn't understand enough science to refute me. I had learned evolution in high school. I could repeat the facts, but I didn't believe them. I never argued with high school biology teachers becasue they didn't know enough about it to argue back. Then cam college. I took a course in evolution, because I am a curious and open-minded person. I went to class I took the notes and I talked to my prof. during his office hours. For each of the proofs he gave me, I gave him reasons (creationist arguments) that they weren't proof or that they were wrong, and he was able to easily refute any argument I gave him. I always questioned him and refuted things in the book, but he always refuted mine right back, and he did a better job and used undeniable empirical evidence. (No I am not going to give you any here I have neither the time nor the degree) At this point I was a very confused Christian, I talked to other Christians, I found sites online and then I found a creationist debate site. I asked what they thought and after hearing points from all sides: atheist, hard-core creationist, theistic evolution, self-righteous butt heads. I came to my own conclusion with all the facts that I had. Since then I have seen Kent Hovind speak...and I uh...won't go there. The fact of the matter is...can my belief in an old evolved earth withstand creationist arguments...I would say so. Have I taken classes in Creation...heck yeah. Will I take more in the future...sure if I think they have anything to add to my knowledge. In fact there is a professor at my college who is a creationist and if he ever speaks I will certainly go to hear him. So am I close minded or afraid to learn something new or change my opinion...no. I look to find the truth through facts and knowledge. Because after all when you find truth you find God. So instead of attempting to turn my question back to me, why don't you actually ask yourself...are you afraid to take a detailed class in evolution taught by someone with a PhD...could Creationism stand up to it. I can't answer that question for you, and I can't even tell you whether you should try to find the answer or not, it's your choice. But don't forget, whenever you believe something don't just belive it because someone said so, find out WHY you believe it to make sure that you should
