When the founding fathers determined that religion should not be established, nor prohibited from being freely exercised, they probably wouldn't have considered atheism (the assertion that there is no God) to be a religion, because at the time it wasn't organized, or funded. The Judeo Christian religions were organized and funded at the time, as were other types of religion. They weren't concerned with what beliefs majorities or minorities had, they were concerned with impositions a religion could put on segments of the population with their organizational requirements, or money issues. They could see atheists needing protection from religion, but they couldn't see religion needing protection from atheism, because it wasn't organized. While it can be argued that atheism is not a religion, it can't be argued that it isn't an EQUIVALENT to religion today, with the organization and funding that it now has. 200 years ago, an organization needed buildings and meetings and transportation to be organized. With today's communications, it does not. Just type "atheism" in any search engine and note the organization, and political action. 
I'm not using the term "atheism" in a derogatory manner. It's an assertion that there is no God. But today it's every bit as organized and politically active as any religion - it has happened practically overnight, thanks to modern communications. It now has the same ability to impose itself on society exactly like religion, and is covered by the first amendment the same as any religion. It cannot claim science as its god, and force it upon public education.
3) One of the most interesting things about this whole issue is the fact that the same thing, only reversed, was going on in the US 100 years ago. 
http://www.campusmagazine.org/articl...2-2f7cc3afdb0f
The concept of evolution was recently founded at that time, and some closed minded religious people were afraid of it, and vehemently opposed having it taught in schools. Today, the concept of intelligent design, (void of any certain religion and its associated faith) is vehemently opposed by closed minded Darwinists, who are afraid of it in exactly the same way.  I suspect the same thing was at the root of it all 100 years ago just like today - concerns of how the money flows. Religious leaders seek funding - secular science seeks funding. 
If I would have been alive 100 years ago, would I have opposed having evolution taught in schools? Of course I would have, because I wouldn't have been able to forsee how the benefits that the study of microevolution, genetics, and other non controversial aspects of evolution have benefited society. Chances are there are equal, undiscovered things about intelligent design that could be discovered it we would give it a chance. 
In the words of biologist Arthur Jones;
