 
 With the growth of the web 2.0 we have acknowledged the value of opinionated content spreading around the web as a chance for studing the 
convergence of points of view and claims in dispute in the WebSphere generating both political and business inteligence.

	# Big data -> Information retrieval, web mining , text mining -> ML 
	#NLP , linguistic, dialetic , 
	#argumentation
	#argumentation and its relation to ai.
	#This has broaden the relation beetween AI and argumentation and given base to the study of subjectivity.

	Opinionated claims are assertions in witch an author expresses an opinionated point of view showing some level of belief.     
	An argument is in its essence an agregation of a claim(also refered to as conclusion) and a set of premisses supporting it, this components can be seen as elementary units of argumentation.
	Given that claims themselfs can be used as premisses for deriving further claims, an argument can also be seen as a nested structure(tree or graph) with a qualitative 
relation beetween its sub-components.
	Argumentation mining is the process of extracting structured argument data from raw natural text.
	This process presents itself as a sequence of tasks starting with identification of arguments,
then identification of each argument internal structure i.e, the relations between components and finaly the relations between arguments as a global structure.

    ##general aproaches to the problem of identification #SotA 
	The identification task can be put as a classification problem of labelling all propositions as argumentative or not.
	The main features beeing used to solve this classification problem are Uni-grams i.e, each word, Bigrams, Trigrams, Adverbs, Verbs, Modal auxiliary, word couples, text statistics, punctuations,
	key words i.e, a list of word sequences indicatives of argumentation and parse features i.e, location context on a larger scope in the argumentative structure.     

	#intra / inter 
	#dependence of context

#aproaches #SotA	
	#role of machine learning in argument mining and valid alternatives (statistical regression..linguistic models ? )
	Formulating this task as a binnary classification problem a few approaches are being used being the most trending machine learning. 
	ML condicionaly implies that a training set is used, and given that AM with a Ml aproach require a collection of documents anotated with the features required for the task at hand.
	
	#value of annotated data (corpora)
	Since this approach is relatively new and there is scarsity of such datasets in other languages than english, there is a focus on re-usability and compliance with the 
	immergent standards in the field.
	
	## identifying opinionated claims
	This specific task as the adicional task of classifying an argumentative claim as subjective or fact.
	
	##relation between opinion mining and argument mining perspectives on claim detection
	In this particular context the aim is to explore other features including those used in similar problems such as opinion mining.
	While the general focus of OM is to understand the positioning a certain individual on a given matter by detecting the presence of sentiment in the transmited message,
AM focus on unveiling the reasoning patterns aplied to it.

	
#similar problems
The aim of opinion mining is the automatic detection of an opinionated claim, or subjectivity within a piece of natural text.

##opinion based argument mining  
	Given that an opinionated claim has some inherent subjectivity, the hipotesis that there might exist a correlation between sentiment detection and argumentative content, 
	as well as commitment of belief in the claim is to be explored. #sentiment analysis #commited belief	
PDIS report structure
Introdução 
Contexto, Motivação, Objectivos
This thesis aims build an argumentative framework aplied to the automatic detection of opinionated claims in the portuguese websphere in argument mining prespecctive through a machine learning approach.
Estado da arte
Trabalhos relacionados, tecnologias existentes, abordagens ao problema ou a problemas semelhantes
Problema e perspetiva de solução (escolher um nome de acordo com o domínio do trabalho)
(Secções dependem do domínio do trabalho)
Conclusões e Trabalho Futuro
As conclusões são do trabalho de PDIS, e devem portanto fazer o fecho deste trabalho e a previsão dos resultados a obter na dissertação.
(Referir aqui as tarefas e incluir um diagrama de Gantt com o plano de execução previsto.)