Just as you have a background in science Frog, I also have an extensive background in Christianity. A brief synopsis: starting at birth I was without consent given the supposed "gift" of Catholic faith. In highschool I met a kid and later on a girlfirend who were both Born Again Christians. I thought I'd dabble in it. The girlfirend and I went our seperate ways, but I remained a Christian and began studying the Bible. The transformations in me were mostly bad and far beyond the scope of this (we can discuss it on a different forum), but one important thing occured when I began studying the Bible in earnest. I found holes and flaws too big to be ignored. Don't ask me what they were because, again, this is not the religious forum and I'd be hard pressed to even tell you what they were, but I assure you there was a time I could quote them chapter and verse. Since that time I have tried my best to forget it. I realized that my error was the attempt to literally interpret the Bible. I knew that if I pulled back from that, attempting instead to decipher the good message of the scriptures, I could perhaps save my Christian faith. But I didn't want to become an apologist. So, in my mind I travelled east. I dabbled in Taoism and Buddhism which appealed very much to my love of Asian history. After a year or two of this, when I discovered there was also a strict theology behind these Asian religions, and it was not just a matter of reading Thomas Merton, meditating and burning incense, I realized that I had been acting like a rich divorced woman with much too much time on her hands (Think of the British sitcom "Absolutely Fabulous" --- greatest show of all time after Seinfeld), and that if you're really goign to commit yourself to something you need to do more than scratch the surface. It was then, when all religious answers seemed to elude me, that I subscribed to agnosticism: athiesm with a parachute as my old English professor used to say. And on that note I remain today. I don't know the answer and therefore will not comment. Through all of it, however, one philosophy has given me freedom: the beginning of wisdom can be found in the notion that we don't have the answers. Do you say I have the answers because men wrote them in a book nearly 2000 years ago, and I can take their word for it? Hell, Frog, I don't take the word of a man who writes the answers in a book today, let alone 2000 years ago. I open the newspaper always skeptical. If you tell me something, you'd better be able to support it.
Now what I do believe is an entire scientific community which can back up their claims, publish them and open up their work for anyone else in the world with the means to duplicate these tests (or subject a hypothesis to a different test of their own design). 
The problem with the Bible is that its primary source of evidence is the Bible. A bad comparison, but a comparison nonetheless would be my writing a book and telling you that book is the truth because I say so. Exceprts from the Bible which may point to actual historical events or documented figures do not by rote prove that Jesus walked on water. I call Bible-thumpers mindless because this has been my experience, Frog. Up close and personal. They think inside the very tiny box of their scriptures and ask that we accept it by faith. But the basis by which we're really accepting it is widescale social acceptance. If enough people, enough books, enough teachers point to this single source and say "it is truth," then the cud-chewing masses will usually fall in line. But that doesn't necessarily mean I am going to buy it. I would prefer listening to people, books and teachers who point to many different sources and say this is truth. If I want to see evidence of the Bible I can read the Bible. If I want to see evidence of evolution I can visit our excellent museum of natural history here in Pittsburgh. If I want to discuss evidence of the Bible I can talk to someone who has read the Bible. If I want to discuss evidence of evolutoin I can talk to someone who has read books from many different disciplines of scientific thought. If I want to challenge myself with new questions about the Bible I can open the Bible. If I want to challenge myself with new questions about evolution I can go outside, take a walk in the woods, scribble in my notebook and come back to this forum with a 47 page post full of questions: the important point here being that others like Lurch and Demon would either be able to answer them or point me in the right direction of someone who can. 
(continued on next message)