
But, now simone is in a pickle. Is there an explanation as to why police officers carry these things? (OH! Now we switch to the purpose of the USER! How convenient! I wish I could determine that an item is bad using one train of logic, and then SWITCH LINES OF LOGIC to suit my argument!
I will bet that simone will choose to COMPLETELY IGNORE MY POST because I am removing all lines of dishonest "logic switching". (or, at least attempting to)
Rather than admit wrongness, (very hard to do once a person has so vehemently commited themselves to an agenda) there is no other choice than to follow the trail of that path to the end. Even if the path leads to a land of complete logical make believe and you are thereby forced to defend your chosen agenda even if it means temporarily making logical "detours". 
After all, if objects have no inherent evil or goodness, it must be the character of the USER and the chosen purpose of the USER that determines the ethical value of how an item is used.
If this is so, you can't call guns bad. This determination can not be admitted on the path simone has chosen. Therefore, since simone's agenda insists on the inherent evilness of an object (a gun) there MUST be some logical deviation to explain why these "evil" items are not "evil" when used by police. If there is no logical deviation on a path that is in error, you will have no choice but to arrive in error's destination: make believe land! Where matches burn down houses! And knives cause slashings! And candle holders cause bashed in skulls!....AND......AND.....GUNS CAUSE SHOOTINGS!
Well, simone. We're down to brass tacks. Is a gun bad, or is it the determination of the person who uses it?
Because if a gun is bad, then we live in la-la land. And if a gun is an inanimate object who's user is responsible for how it is used, you have no argument for why law abiding people can't posess them and be capable of the determination (As police do) for using them in a responsible manner. Just like matches, or cars, or candle holders.
So, simone............