    Health care reform is good for the economy 				 By  David Culter  and  Judy Feder 					   
                  Friday, March 19th 2010,  8:02 AM  
 As the health debate enters its final stages, the "Army of No" is trying to scare Americans about reform. 

 Health care reform will take away our precious rights and upset the status quo.  It is socialism come to the  U.S.  
The playbook for the Army is the same one that was used in the 1950s, 1970s and 1990s. 
But this time is different; it's not going to work. 
 What Americans consistently recognize - despite polls that show a wide range of opinions on descriptions of different bills - is that we need a health reform law for our health and economic security. 
 Without reform, 15 million more Americans may lose their coverage over the next decade and go without health care when they need it. 

 With reform, lives will be longer and healthier. 

The Army of No has no answer to the health care case. 
The economic case is just as compelling. 
 The biggest threat to American economic growth in the next decade is not rising oil prices or the recent financial meltdown: It is the increasing cost of health care. 

 The employers who cover 160 million non-elderly Americans have seen their premiums nearly double since 2000, and premiums are expected to double again in the coming decade. 
 Workers who have given up wages already will be asked to give up even more, and still health costs will eat away at business profits and government budgets. 
With reform, we can lay the groundwork for a sustainable middle class recovery. 
The reforms on the verge of being passed through Congress will address our economic situation in two ways. 
 First, they will promote entrepreneurship and innovation by guaranteeing coverage outside as well as inside the workplace. 

 Today, millions of people don't leave their jobs or start a business because they're desperately holding onto a health plan. 

Small businesses fail to grow in part because of high insurance costs. 

If health reform passes, this will change dramatically. 

 Alongside job-based coverage, the new state exchanges would enable Americans to buy affordable and effective health insurance coverage on their own - 
 without the risk of discrimination based on pre-existing conditions, denials or cancellations of coverage, or exorbitant premium hikes that are experienced today. 
 And alongside an end to these unacceptable practices, health reform's new marketplaces for insurance will lower administrative costs and give Americans more choices. 
 Those predicting negative economic effects for the country either aren't paying attention what's in the bill or are willfully distorting its provisions. 
 Second, health reform will provide the tools we need to rein in unsustainable health cost growth. 

 Experts from the left and the right agree that about a third of the more than $2 trillion the U.S. currently spends every year on health care doesn't improve our health. 
That's got to change - and health reform puts that change in motion. 
 Reform starts with  Medicare , which, just like private insurers, keeps spending too much for too little value. 
 Through a series of requirements and incentives, the legislation would replace Medicare's outmoded payment systems with programs that reward value and encourage efficient care. 
 Wherever Medicare has led, private payers have followed. 
 Our research shows that if today's "best practices" in medicine - emphasizing prevention, avoiding hospitalizations, and managing chronic illness - become common, we can lower premiums by more than 12%. 

Lest that sound implausible, note that it requires nothing more than health care achieving the same level of productivity growth that every other U.S. industry has accomplished in recent years. 
With lower costs will come more jobs. Our research shows that slowing the growth of insurance premiums can create an estimated 250,000-400,000 new jobs every year over the next decade. 
At the same time, lowering health care cost growth is the single most important  step that can be taken to balance the federal budget.
 Even the  Congressional Budget Office , which uses very conservative projections, says that the bill Congress is about to pass would reduce the deficit by $130 billion over the next ten years and $1.2 trillion in the ten years after that. 

 Our own forecast, which factors in other likely cost reductions, is that the total budgetary savings from now until 2030 will total around $6.5 trillion. 
Change can be scary. 
But there is no scenario for middle class economic growth that does not ultimately involve successful health care reform. 
The Army of No may like things as they are; the vast bulk of Americans prefer and deserve something better. 
Cutler, a professor of economics at  Harvard  and Feder, a professor of public policy at  Georgetown , are senior fellows at the  Center for American Progress . 
Both have consulted with the  White House  and Congress on health care reform. 
