Health care reforms help already: Sister Simone Campbell | 			cleveland.com 
 By Sister Simone Campbell  
 It has been six months since Congress passed health care reform that sparked contentious national debate, 
 and the law has now become a political football in the run-up to midterm elections. 
 This early anniversary offers an important opportunity to cut through partisan rancor and deliberate distortions still being peddled by some opponents, to consider how specific reforms are already helping Americans in tangible ways.  
 I write as a Catholic nun who serves as the executive director of a national Catholic social justice lobbying organization on Capitol Hill. 
 Numerous advocates in our network work in health care facilities in Ohio and across the country. 
 We know from practical experience the daunting challenges families face when a loved one is sick, money is tight and the prospect of battling with insurance companies weighs heavy on the heart. 
 In a just society, access to quality, affordable health care should be a fundamental human right and a moral imperative. 

 While health care reform will not magically solve the vast and complicated issues at stake in a system that makes up one-sixth of our economy, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act has already achieved monumental victories.  
   Starting this month, insurance companies can no longer deny coverage to children with pre-existing conditions or drop people from coverage when they get sick. 

   The law prohibits all health plans from placing lifetime caps on coverage -- a cruel scenario that previously left those facing long illnesses with dire choices. 

 Young adults who need coverage can now remain on their parents' insurance until they are 26, which is especially important as young people face the most difficult job market in decades. 

 Uninsured adults who could not get coverage because of a pre-existing condition have access to temporary high-risk pools until permanent health care exchanges are established in five years. 
 In addition, new health plans must now cover preventive services such as blood pressure checkups, cholesterol tests and routine vaccinations. 

 No longer will patients be charged a co-payment or deductible for these services, an important victory for consumers since heart disease, diabetes and other chronic illnesses are often preventable, and research shows consumers avoid preventative care when it's not covered.  

   Looking ahead to the benefits health care reform will bring in future years, the law also established a pregnancy assistance fund that will provide $250 million over the next decade to help pregnant and parenting women and teens with child care, housing, education and services for those victimized by domestic or sexual violence. 

 This vital network of comprehensive support is especially critical for women who lack the resources to raise a healthy child and may view abortion as their only option in difficult situations. 

 In addition, thanks to health care reform, an estimated 15 million more Americans will be served by community health centers, which provide preventive and primary care in many vulnerable communities.  
 While these common-sense improvements will help all Americans regardless of political views, many elected officials are now being attacked for their health care votes. 
 Political ads with little fidelity to the facts smear candidates, and campaigns stoke fear by spreading deliberate misinformation. 
 Some critics claim, for example, that health care reform pays for abortions. This is false. 

 President Barack Obama worked with pro-life members of Congress and even signed an executive order upholding longstanding provisions that prohibit federal funding of abortion. 

 Others insist that government is "taking over" health care and creating a socialist system. 
 In fact, new health insurance exchanges will offer competitive, consumer-centered health insurance marketplaces that will give individuals and families more choices and greater control. 

 And for those who are legitimately concerned about our nation's growing debt, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, health care reform will, over time, help lower the deficit by creating a stronger, more efficient health care system.  
 Voters will be better served by educating themselves about a law that takes historic steps toward building a health care system that finally lives up to our nation's highest values instead of being fooled by deceptive campaign ads that distort the truth for partisan gain.  
