   Pull the plug, Barack: It's a mistake to try to ram through health care reform 					 
                  Sunday, March 14th 2010,  4:00 AM  
 Health reform: Down the stretch it comes. President Obama has gone so far as to postpone an overseas trip in a last-ditch push to get a comprehensive reform bill to his desk.
 
He shouldn't waste his energy. Not with unemployment justifiably the nation's top concern and the possibility of a double-dip recession still looming. Remember how Obama said, in his State of the Union reboot, "Jobs must be our No. 1 focus in 2010"? Well, apparently he doesn't. Not with the American people abandoning the President's prescription in huge numbers. Just one in four voters supports the reform bill as written; half want Congress to start over. 

 Compare that with the popular support other major pieces of social legislation enjoyed before passage, like welfare reform (68%), Medicare (63%) and civil rights (60%). Not with health care costs having risen 73% over the last decade - with Medicaid growing at 21% a year - and showing no signs of coming down to Earth. 
 
 Controlling costs is the absolute, unconditional, a-blind-man-could-see-it prerequisite for expanding coverage. Not with American health care quality actually quite impressive in many respects, including world-leading rates for patients surviving cancer and among the shortest wait times for hard-to-find treatments and surgeries. Not with a half-dozen accounting gimmicks built into the legislation - including the fact that federal budget projections are based on 10 years worth of tax collections and just six years of spending increases. Not with the Senate, lacking even a single Republican vote, having to resort to reconciliation, a little-used parliamentary maneuver, to get it through. Sure, it's been used before - but not on anything that has such limited public support. Not after all the cynical back room deals - deals Obama has committed to removing - having frayed the public trust. With legislation of this magnitude, that is not a renewable resource. 

 Obama clearly thought he was doing the right and necessary and bold thing by tackling health reform. His conviction has been admirable. But reality has come a-knocking, quite persistently, and it's saying: Enough already. 
 
 Fix what's broken, then move on. He should assemble a modest consensus package of two or three smart ideas, such as outlawing insurance company abuses - like discrimination based on preexisting conditions - speeding the adoption of electronic medical records and reining in the medical malpractice market. Only a targeted approach will begin to tackle the central problem plaguing American health care, which is how terribly much it all costs. 

And only a targeted approach will carry the promise of bipartisan action that will not set off a new civil war in Washington. 
 
And it will enable Obama and the Democrats - who run Washington - to get back to creating jobs. 	Which happens to be the best way for them to keep their own jobs secure.
