 The bill that passed the Senate Thursday is a monstrosity. 
 It is pock-marked with rotten pork added in backroom deals. 

 If not fixed in conference committee, it could wind up costing New York a billion dollars a year.
 And it is a huge step forward for America.

 This legislation finally starts giving some basic protections to regular people who for years have been at the mercy of insurance companies. 

 No more having coverage denied based on a preexisting condition or dropped when you get sick.

 It finally gives every citizen - 31 million more by nonpartisan calculations - the chance to buy health care coverage at an affordable rate, through newly created exchanges where people can pool their risk.
 It holds the promise of beginning to bend the health care "cost curve" that threatens to bankrupt the country as the baby boomers retire. 

 Not enough - not even close - but every journey begins with a first step.
 Fully, 62% of all bankruptcies filed in 2007 were linked to medical expenses. 

 Every day, in the world's wealthiest country, people lose everything because their bills, often from catastrophic illnesses, overwhelm them. 

 Talk about adding insult to injury. 
 Now, finally, there's some semblance of a safety net.
 In no way, shape or form, is this "government-run" health care, as critics insist.

 It is government-regulated care. 
 That is something the people deserve in a nation where the government is entrusted to safeguard the safety of our air and drinking water and ensure fair play in major financial markets.

 Nor is this a loopy, liberal solution. 
 The right-wing pundits hyperventilating that we're on the road to socialism need to check themselves into the hospital and get hooked up to an oxygen machine.

 This is a moderate, though comprehensive, attempt to fix a huge problem - to adjust a system that's simply unsustainable in its current form.
 In broad outlines, the bill is a national version of the imperfect but important reform plan that Republican Governor Mitt Romney signed into law in Massachusetts years ago. 

 It's light years less liberal than HillaryCare was.
 Let it not be lost on critics that President Obama demanded that the bill be "paid for" - in other words, that all the taxes and cuts necessary to fund it be included in the legislation.

 President George W. Bush never felt this pang of responsibility when, for instance, he championed the new prescription drug benefit in Medicare - and that's why Sen. John McCain and other budget hawks opposed it.
 The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office says the bill would reduce the federal deficit by $132 billion over its first 10 years and as much as $1.3 trillion in the following decade.
 Prepare for a rough road ahead. 
 The legislation could emerge from the House-Senate conference as something that either the liberals in the House or the moderates in the Senate can't swallow. 
 On abortion alone, threading the needle will mean drawing blood.
 If and when this thing passes, the headaches of getting it through Congress will be nothing compared to the migraine-sized hangover of implementing something this complicated.
 But guess what? Fixing big problems is complicated.
 It's also why we sent these people to Washington.

