Editorial: Health care and jobs
 Insurers and drug companies have been boosting their prices by much more than overall inflation yet again this year.
 There are always lots of complaints about federal tax rates, which are at the lowest they've been in many decades. 
(Why isn't the economy surging?) 
 What about the big annual increases in the "taxes" levied on us by health insurers and pharmaceutical companies, particularly tough to take in a country where middle-class standards of living have been falling?
 The health-care bills in Congress, for all their flaws (and all such legislation has flaws -- it's done by people with innumerable competing pressures on them) would help curb these ever-more gigantic expenses.

 And health care is a big problem for jobs. 
 The increasingly costly and chaotic health-care "system" severely hurts employment. 
 Firms must pay soaring premiums instead of expanding employment, and individuals must pay ever-higher premiums and co-pays, which come out of money that they could spend on other things, such as starting new businesses. 

 The majority of jobs are created by small firms, most of which can ill afford the staggering annual increases in health-insurance prices.
 The near-universal coverage envisioned in congressional health-care bills would make it much easier for people to leave their jobs and go out and start new enterprises. 

 It would also ease the way for younger workers because scared older ones would feel less compelled to hang onto their jobs for their employment-based insurance until they get Medicare, at age 65. 
 Health-care reform would, in short, energize the economy.

 The House and Senate health-care bills contain provisions to slow health-care cost increases even as they would widen coverage to the tens of millions of Americans who now have no insurance, some of whom die because of that lack.
 Barring reform, however, health-care costs threaten to derail the economy.

 The soaring insurance bills you're getting now (if you have insurance) is a good indication of what will worsen without major reform, which, the GOP is correct to say, should include tough controls on medical lawsuits.
 President Obama and congressional Democrats should not give up on a program that would boost the economy and save lives.

 They should remember that America's only near-universal health-care program, in Massachusetts, which lacks the cost controls in the congressional legislation, has the support of about 70 percent of the Bay State's electorate.

 Indeed, U.S. Sen.-elect Scott Brown, in a display of deep cynicism and hypocrisy, voted for the state program and didn't dare campaign against it this year even as he said he'd join the GOP filibuster against similar but more fiscally responsible plans in Congress! 
 (The GOP fears that health-care reform, once actually implemented, would make the Democrats dangerously popular.)
 In fact, the proposed bills in Congress would help Massachusetts, too, by controlling costs and sending money to some underfunded parts of the Bay State plan. 
 That would help job creation - even in Massachusetts.
