More Obamacare insanity: Sebelius' shameless attempt to jawbone insurers on costs
ANDREA TANTAROS
 In early September, Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius - throwing her new weight around after the passage of Obamacare - threatened the health insurance industry with a letter that spelled out "zero tolerance" for "unjustified rate increases."

 This week, her agency unveiled a new rule that allows the federal government to decide what counts as an "unreasonable" rate increase. 

 The upshot: If an insurance company increases the cost of a premium to above 10%, it may well feel the wrath of the feds.
 There's just one problem: Under Obamacare, the federal government does not have the authority to block or overturn an insurance price increase. 
 (Congress debated whether or not to give the Health and Human Services Department this authority during the crafting of the legislation, but it was ultimately rejected.) 
 In point of fact, 43 states already regulate and approve rates in the individual or small business market through their insurance commissioners. 
 This new law would let them continue to do their job - unless the federal government were to decide that their reviews weren't "effective." 

 Once again, government is overreaching and telling private business what to do.

 Stop for a moment and digest how silly all this is. 
 Sebelius and her crew can scold insurance companies in public, but they have zero actual power to actually get a company to lower the objectionable cost. 

 It's the politicization of price controls - big government at its strong-arming worst.

 But there's a deeper problem here: The idea that our federal government, which is mandating that insurance companies to do more and more, can at the very same time be bullying by way of executive power to force them to charge less and less. 

 We often decry "unfunded mandates" when they hit states and local governments; why should we just roll our eyes when the target is private industry? 
 The disconnect within the Obama administration either reveals how little it cares about the laws of economics or how convinced it is that it can single-handedly rewrite them.

 With the passage of Obamacare, the government slapped the managed care industry with a plethora of new must-do's: For example, requiring that the insurers cover young adults until they're 26  and banning them from denying coverage for anyone with preexisting conditions; mandating coverage of immunizations, and getting rid of lifetime limits.

 To add all these new requirements, then in the same breath to tell insurers that they cannot raise premiums, is like telling General Motors that the cars it produces need to have side air bags, hybrid engines and state-of-the-art sound systems, but they can't raise a single sticker price.

 "The regulatory apparatus developing in the wake of the health reform law is leading to the politicization of the U.S. health care system," says Bill Smith, a former pharmaceutical executive and now a health care consultant with National Strategies in Washington, "and we have seen in the European context how political control of health care destroys innovation."
 So what does this mean for the insurance industry? 
 Expect the market - which was already distorted in many ways - to get even more chaotic. 
 Besides the regulations creating a media frenzy for press-hungry politicians who can use insurers as a punching bag,  insurers will have to publicly justify why they are raising rates (through a statement on their website, for example).
 For a provider in a state like New York, a lashing from Washington could put pressure on our insurance commissioner to rein in any proposed increases. 

 The insurer could be pressured into keeping the rate low, which could in turn lead a New York-based insurer to pull out of the small-group or individual market, thus giving us fewer options.

 So while Sebelius' new rule gives her little new legal authority, it does give her the power to alter insurers' behavior through public shaming - a powerful political tool when anti-business sentiment is running so high.
 And although insurers are required to cover certain benefits, they could diminish other, less essential ones, thus giving us, the patients, a watered-down product.

 Plus, Obamacare was bad enough. 
 Now, thousands of additional regulations are sprouting up in addition to the bill. 
 (Sebelius' new rule is 136 pages long - on top of a 2,000-plus page health care bill). 
 But, under the Medical Loss Ratio rule in the Obamacare bill, insurers are not allowed to spend more on administrative costs. 
 So how are they supposed to read through this mountain of new mandates?

 The irony of it all is that Obamacare was supposed to provide coverage for everyone, and now it's squeezing the same industry that provides the coverage. This puts our nation on the road to a public option, the left's ultimate goal. 
 When premiums are squeezed but benefits are enriched, it is a recipe for insurers to withdraw from the market. 

 This could help politicians make the case for a government option in 2014, when the insurance exchanges go into effect. 
 Since an estimated 30 million people could be buying insurance through these exchanges, the threat is very real - and very troublesome.

 So while Obama and Sebelius tighten their grip, we, the patients, stand to pay the price. 
 It's enough to make us sick.
andrea@andreatantaros.com
Andrea Tantaros, whose column appears on Thursdays on NYDailyNews.com and often in the print edition of the newspaper, is a political commentator as well as a corporate communications executive. 
She previously served as a senior adviser on a number of political campaigns and as communications director for former Massachusetts Gov. Bill Weld and Rep. Thomas Reynolds, and on Capitol Hill as press secretary for Republican leadership. 
Tantaros lives in New York City.
