Is there a doctor in the house? Obamacare will worsen the physician shortage Congress helped create

BY DR. MARC SIEGEL
Wednesday, October 13th 2010, 4:00 AM
 There is a new disease spreading like a cancer in doctors' offices and hospitals throughout the U.S. 
 I have named it Doctor Unavailability Syndrome (DUS). 
 It is characterized by a rising shortage of doctors, both specialists and primary care, as well as the growing inability of the doctors we do have to take care of patient needs.

 What good is a shiny new insurance card if there is not a physician available to see you?

 This disease can be traced back to 1997, when Congress, anticipating a doctor surplus, included a section in its budget-balancing law that froze the number of Medicare-sponsored residency positions.
 But instead of a surplus, a shortage soon developed, and has worsened over the years, now reaching epidemic proportions. 
 The Association of American Medical Colleges Center for Workforce Studies just reported an anticipated shortage of 90,000 doctors of all kinds over the next decade, with half of them being primary care physicians and the other half surgeons and specialists.

 The report suggests that Medicare should support at least a "15% increase in GME (Graduate Medical Education) positions, allowing teaching hospitals to prepare another 4,000 physicians a year to meet the needs of 2020 and beyond."

 Don't count on this proposed subsidy happening any time soon. 
 Instead, the new health care law, known ironically as the Affordable Care Act, is promoting and extending the kind of low co-pay and low deductible insurance that is easy to overuse, overwhelming doctors further and leading to an upward spiral of health care costs.
 The doctors we do have are beleaguered and many are dropping out, increasing overall unavailability. 
 As Obamacare adds 32 million uninsured - including 16 million on Medicaid - to the rolls over the next decade, and 36 million more patients reach Medicare age at the same time, we doctors are increasingly fleeing from public insurance.
 According to a recent national survey, less than half of the nation's doctors are seeing new Medicaid patients. 
 The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission recently reported that 28% of patients seeking a new Medicare provider were unable to find one. 
 This problem will only get worse as the new Independent Medicare Advisory Panel decides which services are beneficial and which aren't, tying the treating hands of doctors who are still trying to work with Medicare.
 Nurse practitioners and physicians assistants are rushing in to fill the void. 
 But they are a temporary treatment, not a cure.
 The number of nurse practitioners in the country has increased from 80,000 to 140,000 over the past decade. 
 They can perform basic examinations, order tests and, in some states, including New York, even write prescriptions, but I do not think they can easily replace physicians without seriously diluting quality of care. 
 The doctor-patient encounter is a one-on-one event. 
 It cannot effectively be performed by one practitioner (the NP) and then later authorized by another (the doctor).
 Perhaps even more importantly, modern medicine is moving further in the direction of high-tech solutions that require substantial training to perform. 
 In many areas of medicine, we need more specialization rather than less. 
 The growing shortage of specialists is at least as worrisome as the shortage of primary care doctors. 
 NPs and PAs, no matter how well trained, cannot simply step in and handle the latest therapies.
 Doctor Unavailability Syndrome is becoming a serious epidemic, without a cure in sight. 
 In fact, it's probably about to get worse.
Siegel, MD, is a professor of medicine and medical director of Doctor Radio at New York University Langone Medical Center.
