What Obamacare can learn from Romneycare: Massachusetts' plan makes far more sense
BY BRAD JONES
Sunday, March 21st 2010, 4:00 AM
 Partisans on both sides of Washington's health care debate point to the Massachusetts plan enacted in 2006 - some to defend Obamacare, some to attack it.
 I know the Massachusetts health care reform plan well because I was there at the creation. 
 It is different from ObamaCare in many important respects, and there are vital cautionary lessons it teaches us as we grapple with the problem of the uninsured nationally.
 We did in fact get almost everyone insured. 
 Nearly 98% of Massachusetts citizens now have health insurance, including those with pre-existing conditions. This has meant earlier treatment and better care. 
 No one in Massachusetts needs fear that he or she will become uninsured if they lose or change jobs.
 We achieved this by establishing an incentive for people to get insured: An uninsured individual's tax levy is raised by an amount equal to one half of the annual premium of the lowest-cost health insurance private plan.
 For those who cannot afford insurance, we provide a subsidy according to a sliding scale based on their income. 
 We also established an exchange to make it easier for individuals to purchase insurance. 
 In these ways, our plan also tracks Obamacare.
 But that's where the similarities end.
 Our plan has proven fiscally smart. 
 The program costs less than 1.5% of the state budget, well within its original forecast. 
 We don't yet know whether Obamacare would cost more or less than projected, but a disturbing number of optimistic projections and fiscal gimmicks in the bill suggest it will cost more than anticipated.

 Higher taxes on individuals and businesses were not part of our plan - while nearly $1 trillion in higher taxes are a big part of what funds Obamacare.

 Nor did we seek to control insurance premiums. Obamacare gives government this power.

 Our plan did not cut Medicaid or Medicare. 
 Obamacare will divert $1.1 trillion away from Medicare, which is barely solvent as is.

 The Massachusetts legislation was 70 pages long, and easy for the people to understand. 
 Obamacare is a frightening 2,000-page bill. 

 This is more than symbolic; it means the bill is filled with myriad surprises for the taxpayers.

 The final big difference is perhaps most important of all: Ours is a state plan, not a federal plan imposed on the entire country.

 We've made mistakes. 
 Massachusetts mandates which medical coverage must be included in each insurance policy, including such things as an unlimited number of in vitro fertilization treatments. 
 That inflates costs for everyone. 
 And Massachusetts applies a $295 annual fee on employers for each uninsured employee, which has hurt the business climate in our state. 
 Then-Gov. Mitt Romney's objection to both these measures was overridden by Democrats in the legislature.
 Regrettably, Obamacare repeats these design errors.

 Finally, we learned that while our plan succeeded in lowering premiums for individuals who wish to purchase insurance on their own, for those already insured through their employer, health insurance costs continue to rise. 

 Among the reasons: State-mandated treatment coverages and the failure to limit malpractice rewards.

 Summing up the major lessons for our current national debate: States can solve the problems of pre-existing conditions and the uninsured. 

 There is no need for higher taxes, Medicare eliminations or for a federal power grab.

 And the single biggest health care problem - high costs - will not be solved by universal coverage alone.

