Swindling our seniors: AARP shills for White House on Obamacare
BY LAWRENCE HUNTER
Tuesday, August 3rd 2010, 4:00 AM
 For most of last year, AARP was the White House's designated huckster with lawmakers on Capitol Hill to pass comprehensive health care reform legislation and cut Medicare by $500 billion. 

 This calculated move by AARP, which will virtually destroy the popular Medicare Advantage program, will vastly increase the demand for medigap supplemental insurance - AARP's primary insurance product.

 This was a cynical and calculated move for a non-profit organization that is supposed to be advocating for the elderly - not its own business interests.
 Today, Obamacare is the law of the land, and AARP has moved on to become the White House's chosen shill with older Americans, hawking Obamacare like some kind of midway carny to convince seniors that AARP and Obamacare work for them.

 Despite its insistence that "We Never Stop Working for You," AARP works for the White House and on behalf of its own high-paid staff, not its members.

 In turn, Obamacare works for liberal politicians and the government-corporate-nonprofit health care complex, which is composed of big government bureaucracies, labor unions, AARP, big pharma and big insurance companies. 

 What was sold as a bold new path to universal coverage is, at least as far as AARP is concerned, a bait-and-switch snare designed to distract older people with token benefit enrichments. 

 Meanwhile, structural changes to Medicare will ration health care, sending them out into the cold and, surely enough, to an early grave.

 The best evidence of AARP's treachery toward its members was its full-throated support of Obamacare's $500 billion cuts to Medicare. 
 According to Heritage Foundation research by Bob Moffit, "Medicare Advantage plans, which currently attract almost one in four seniors, will see enrollment cut roughly in half over the next 10 years." 
 This despite repeated assurances by President Obama that, "No matter what you've heard, if you like your doctor or your current health care plan, you can keep it."
 Far from being able to keep their current health care plan, many senior citizens will be forced to leave their Medicare Advantage plans and become more dependent on traditional Medicare. 

 That is to say, seniors will have less generous benefit packages and fewer health care choices and will be herded into less desirable Medicare supplemental insurance plans - which, not coincidently, are the staple of AARP's billion-dollar insurance empire.
 AARP's Medicare supplemental insurance products have had an increasingly difficult time competing with Medicare Advantage plans in recent years. 

 So, in the name of "working for seniors," AARP worked with the White House to feather its own corporate nest by using the power of the federal government to destroy its Medicare Advantage competitor.

 AARP's propaganda campaign to snooker the elderly into compliance while they are driven unceremoniously into AARP's insurance sweet spot is brazen and deceptive. 

 For example, AARP's communications director in Ohio has been vocally insisting, despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary, that the changes taking place in Medicare under Obamacare are only to benefit seniors:

 "This new law gives seniors and their families greater savings, better benefits and higher-quality health care. 
 That's why it ensures accountability throughout the system so that seniors have greater control over the care that they receive. 
 And that's why it keeps Medicare strong and solvent - today and tomorrow."
 The facts are exactly the opposite. 
 With an unfunded liability of at least $86 trillion, Medicare is insolvent today by any standard measure of financial soundness, and it only gets worse under Obamacare. 
 With the destruction of Medicare Advantage and the new rules to limit care and restrict doctor reimbursement, seniors will have fewer choices and less control over their health care.

 The quality of health care will inevitably deteriorate, not improve, under the enormous pressures on doctors and health care providers that will be set in motion under Obamacare. 

 While AARP attempts to lull seniors into placid compliance with the new health care regime, rationing is just around the bend.

 In fact, the prospect of health care rationing and restricted choice is not merely an abstraction looming in the future; the injurious effects of Obamacare on seniors already are being felt.

 Doctors, for one, are fleeing Medicare because of the anticipated fee-reimbursement squeeze they will face under Obamacare. 

 As Galen Institute health care expert Grace-Marie Turner reports, there is a flood of physicians hiring financial planners to restructure their finances so they can retire in 2013, the year before Obamacare's main provisions take effect.

 Why? Because come next January, physician reimbursement under Medicare is scheduled to be axed by 30%. 

 Since Medicare payments hardly cover doctors' costs now, many physicians will end up losing money on patients they treat. 

 The American Osteopathic Association, for example, reports that only about 40% of its physician members will continue seeing their current Medicare patients if these cuts occur. 

 In the past, when AARP spoke, senior citizens and members of Congress listened carefully because everyone thought AARP worked for and spoke on behalf of its members. 
 Today, we know better.
Hunter is president of the Social Security Institute, a nonprofit, nonpartisan seniors advocacy organization.
