Not to rain on anyone's parade:
"The liberal hysteria about the tea parties and town hall protests, kicked off by the Obama administration’s issuance of a Homeland Security bulletin warning of right wing terrorists and extremists, has led to a lot of hyperbole on the left about how, well, extreme and terrorist-like the right is becoming. And to be sure, there are some nuts who are politically active on the right who should probably be locked up for their own good. But there are plenty of nuts like that on the left as well.
A Texas woman faces trial this month in Austin on charges she threatened to kill a government informant who infiltrated an Austin-based group that planned to bomb the Republican National Convention in St. Paul, Minn., last fall.
Katyanne Marie Kibby, 25, was indicted in June by a federal grand jury in Austin. She is accused of retaliating against Brandon Darby, the community activist-turned-informant who helped federal prosecutors win convictions against Bradley Neal Crowder, 24, and David Guy McKay, 23.
Prosecutors say the e-mail threat was made Jan. 10. That was two days after Crowder reached a plea bargain with federal prosecutors in Minneapolis for his role in the plot to build Molotov cocktails and attack the GOP convention in September 2008.
Crowder and McKay were part of a group of activists that had gone to the Twin Cities to take part in street demonstrations. The FBI had infiltrated the group with Darby. Crowder and McKay built eight of the gasoline firebombs but didn’t use them, a fact law enforcement officials credited to Darby.
Members of the Austin protest community heaped scorn on Darby, saying he had betrayed longtime friends and colleagues.
Kibby, who lives in Houston, is free on bond. If convicted, she could face 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. She could not be reached for comment.
What’s funny is that, even as this is going on, the left is all atwitter about some gun owners legally carrying their firearms to tea parties in accordance with their 2nd amendment rights. You hear about that endlessly on news outlets like MSNBC, but I’ll bet Kibby’s name has never been mentioned on the network. Not to mention Crowder’s name or McKay’s.
As far as I’m concerned, violence has no place in American politics right now. I firmly believe that we citizens should embrace our 2nd amendment rights as they were enshrined in the Constitution against a day when, as Thomas Jefferson put it, the “tree of liberty” will need to be replenished once again by the blood of “patriots and tyrants.” But that time is certainly not now.
And people who plan on firebombing political conventions, or those who beat down peaceful protesters in the streets (I’m looking at you, SEIU) are tyrants. Not patriots."