This is where intuitive, ready agreement with the opening paragraph starts to get the reader into trouble. All facts are interpreted according to presuppositions, so it's only fair that Creationists should get to bring their presuppositions to the table just like everyone else, right?
Well, let's apply that same blanket reasoning to other situations and see what happens. Imagine a juror whose personal prejudices lead him to presuppose the guilt of a defendant based on her skin colour, and to interpret the facts of the case accordingly. Should he be allowed to sit in judgement? Of course not - but according to the reasoning presented by AiG that leaves us in an impossible position: by eliminating those jurors predisposed to return a guilty verdict based upon race, we necessarily cede the court to those predisposed to return an innocent verdict based upon race.
Our intuition rightly rebels at this false dichotomy. We readily apprehend the existence of a middle ground wherein skin colour confers neither automatic guilt nor automatic innocence. Ah, but! Is that neutrality itself not merely another presupposition, another axiom through which the facts are being interpreted? One might protest that it is not, that the irrelevance of skin colour as a determinant of guilt can be determined empirically. But it would be in vain, because there are, after all, no such thing as 'brute facts'. The data you supply to justify your position only do so when interpreted according to your presupposition that guilt can be race-agnostic. To someone whose presupposition is otherwise, your 'facts' mean something quite different - they might for instance mean the research itself must be corrupt and biased, or at least faulty in some unknown way.
In short, following Ken Ham's reasoning we find ourselves deep in a rabbit hole with no end in sight. We can venture to justify no opinion or belief, because the facts that appear to support one may upon the least whim be reinterpreted in the light of another. I may if I so choose presuppose the bible to be the work of the devil himself, and I am not to be chastised nor deterred through argument, for the axioms by which I choose to interpret the world are, in Ken's eyes, inviolate.
This is hardly the result Ken could have intended. What's gone wrong? Why has his fair-minded attempt to level the playing field backfired so badly?
The answer, of course, is that the playing field isn't really level.
Every once in a while someone will decide that he can fly, and attempt to demonstrate this facility to the world by leaping from a high place. The world thus far has remained largely unimpressed. This is an extreme example of what can happen when the axioms one uses to interpret the world conflict with those upon which it really operates, and it provides the first key to unlocking our dilemma:
Good axioms yield accurate predictions.
As Ken rightly observed, known facts are always subject to interpretation. But the reverse process, the prediction of facts yet to come based on a formulated theory, is not. In making a prediction we are forced to stop shoehorning data into our preconceived worldview and make a statement about what we will find. This yields the closest thing we have to a truly objective measurement of congruence between theory and reality.
This understanding allows us to validate or repudiate the presuppositions we bring to bear on the facts at our disposal. The racist juror would from the outset predict the evidence to be presented would turn out to be stacked against the defendant, but his low 'hit rate' would invalidate his axiom.
So, part of what distinguishes Creationism from mainstream scientific understanding is that, in hindsight and on an ongoing basis its predictions fall wide of the mark. The discovery of shared pseudogenes should have been all but impossible, as should identically located retroviral insertions. We should not have found fossils at all, let alone a nested hierarchy of forms. We should not have been able to observe evolution and speciation. We should not have been able to see very distant stars and galaxies.
All of these unexpected face-plants for Creationism have of course been rationalised away after the fact. Shared pseudogenes must all have some function we don't know about; there must be some determinism in the location of ERVs; fossils and the geological column were all laid down in the Great Flood; the speed of light and the rate of decay of radioactive materials were different in the past. But these rationalisations entail further predictions: we ought not to be able to safely remove pseudogenes if they are functional - but we can. If ERV insertion is deterministic we should see that in the lab - but we don't. If fossils were laid down by the flood we wouldn't expect similar animals to be sorted by depth according to the number of cusps on a back tooth, or to be buried in amongst consistent strata of pollen grains, and we wouldn't expect there to be anything like as much limestone. If decay rates had been high enough in the past to explain what we see today in just 10,000 years, we ought to now be breathing incandescent rock vapour instead of air. And so on.
Science also changes to accommodate the unexpected - but as often as not the 'unexpected' has been discovered by scientists extrapolating existing theories to their logical conclusions, predicting something we didn't initially suspect but which has later been confirmed. And that's the bottom line: Creationism and science both evolve as new facts emerge, but while the result for science has been a trend towards better and more accurate predictions, indicative of closing the gap between theory and reality, Creationism remains a tumbling snowball of post-hoc rationalisation growing around a hard core of sacred axioms that - it would certainly appear thus far - make it impossible for the convergence of prediction and reality to occur.