There is not one theory, but a great many to choose from.
If you're talking about the origins of life, many evolutionists believe in abiogenesis - that life somehow just came about out of non-life.
Some will say that evolution and abiogenesis are two distinct theories, but there's a lot of cross-over; begun with Charles Darwin himself who postulated a primordial soup.
Miller-Urey did experiments to try to concoct how life began in a primordial soup of their own design. They failed in essence to demonstrate how life could emerge from non-life through natural means. (Many work on the philosophy that life came about and evolved through naturalistic, or materialistic processes)
It leads people such as Nobel-winner Francis Crick to come up with certain strange notions; Panspermia, of which, his version just shifts the problem, rather than answers it. (see below under PANSPERMIA)
Intelligent Design theorists suggest that some intelligence; possibly, but not exclusively a deity is behind nature; that nature seems to have an order. Some here too casually dismiss ID from science but the door's already open to science
SETI looks for ID
Cryptographers do to
Forensic scientists do
THEORIES OF LIFE...
PANSPERMIA
Panspermia is the idea that life came from outer space. As with all theories this too is not homogenous. There's a general panspermia theory, and a 'directed' panspermia theory. The former is a belief that life came here by random chance, such as on a meteor. The later is that life came here at the behest of an intelligence - such as aliens directing ships to earth laden with the molecules of life.
One idea is that the building blocks of life “...Bakes said nitrogenated aromatics exist throughout the Milky Way galaxy.” http://www.spacedaily.com/news/life-04zw.html
"Francis Crick also thinks that life on earth may have begun when aliens from another planet sent a rocket ship containing spores to seed the earth. This is no idle thought; Crick first proposed it with chemist Leslie Orgel in 1973 in an article entitled "Directed Panspermia" in a professional science journal called Icarus. A decade later Crick wrote a book, Life Itself, reiterating the theory; in a 1992 interview in Scientific American on the eve of the publication of his latest book, Crick reaffirmed that he things the theory is reasonable." (Behe, M, "Darwin's Black Box", p238) which as I said, simply moves the problem to 'where did the aliens come from?'
"COMPLEXITY THEORY 
Stuart Kauffman, a theoretical biologist at the Sante Fe Institute, has put forth the idea that when the necessary elements of the cell formed in the primordial soup (nucleotides, lipids, and amino acids), they were instantaneously integrated into a system, a system which we know as the cell (Cohen, 1996). Kauffman says this was not due to a miracle or chance, but was bound to occur. He rejects other scientists' need to find some sort of genetic carrier like RNA or DNA, or even an aperiodic solid, saying that the life forms may have had no need for them. (An aperiodic solid is one in which the atoms are arranged in some non-repeatable geometric pattern, such as a helix, that would allow for the variation within the structure that is necessary for genetic material). He believes that such genetic carriers could have evolved after the new life was already flourishing. Kauffman has even designed a computer model that shows that when a few organic molecules have developed some catalytic skills and reach the necessary level of diversity, then they spontaneously form an "autocatalytic set" (a life form). His theory is based on the general complexity theory, which states that when a system reaches some critical level of complexity, it will naturally produce a degree of complex order (4)."
http://www.lifesci.utexas.edu/cours...2/JENNIFER.html
A. G. Cairns-Smith's Callisto Theory: That life began from a type of living-clay
Richard Dawkins says of this "Cairns-Smith believes that the original life on this planet was based on self-replicating inorganic crystals such as silicates. If this is true, organic replicators, and eventually DNA, must later have taken over or usurped the role."
http://originoflife.net/cairns_smith/
"Other Theories
In spite of the intense level of work on the RNA world in the last decade, there is no true consensus theory for precellular life. There are many theories. Here are some of the others ?
A few scientists still say that DNA could succeed in starting life on its way (11). But even the shortest DNA strand needs proteins to help it replicate. This is the chicken-and-egg problem. 
There is a "proteins first" school. For example, Manfred Eigen of Germany's Max Planck Institute says, "There is no doubt that proteins, which are more easily formed, were first on the scene" (11.5). Of course, these first proteins must be much shorter than any used in life today, because of the sheer unlikelihood of forming useful long ones out of a soup of amino acids. 
Physicist Freeman Dyson proposes to solve the chicken-and-egg problem with a double origin, one for metabolism (proteins) and one for replication (strands of nucleotides) (12). 
In Seven Clues to the Origin of Life (13), A. G. Cairns-Smith says that clay crystals could have served as the scaffolding upon which the first short DNA or RNA genome was constructed. A new elaboration of this idea prompted one writer to wonder, "Primordial soup or crêpes?" (14). Even more recently, another tangent on this path leads to zeolite (14.5). 
Biologists Harold J. Morowitz (15), David Deamer (16), and others (17), advocate a theory that could be paraphrased as "containers first." 
Jeffrey L. Bada of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography holds the minority view that the early Earth was frozen and believes precellular life started in "cold soup" under the ice (18, 19). 
Chemists Claudia Huber and Günter Wächtershäuser say the soup where life originated was actually quite hot, probably, near undersea volcanic vents, where iron and nickel sulfides might catalyze some of the necessary reactions (19.5-19.7). 
Cornell Astronomer Thomas Gold wonders if life might have originated in a hot environment even deeper, in Earth's crust (19.8). 
Stuart Kauffman of the Santa Fe Institute, says, "...whenever a collection of molecules contains enough different kinds of molecules, a metabolism will crystallize from the broth" (20). 
Another idea is the "PNA world." Because starting the RNA world is so difficult, there probably needs to be a pre-RNA world. PNA, or peptide nucleic acid, might have some of the properties necessary to constitute that world (21). This would be pre-precellular life."
http://www.panspermia.org/rnaworld.htm
ADDENDUM
If you're interested in aliens, check out "The Science of Aliens" by Clifford A. Pickover. A review is given at
http://sprott.physics.wisc.edu/pickover/soa.htm