Oh, WJA, what a neat little trick. The claim had been made by your side... that he hadn't published an attempt to apply his filter. And, that he was running scarred. Are you now asking me to show where he has successfully demonstrated his filter, or are you asking me if he's attempted to demonstrate his filter...? And now you want his publication in a particular form too! Another slight of hand.
Despite this I countered that he has published.
I said Dembski had come up with a filter
The accusation was that he hadn't applied this to a biological system.
Yet everyone seems to be able to critique this 'invisible' application.
Now with typical aplomb WJA chimes in and you don't go down the path of SLP in actually making any claim. You want me to come up with the goods.
This is the neat trick. You've diverted things away from SLP's ludicrous and biased claim.
The claim was made by SLP without any proof.
The onus is on SLP to provide such proof. I have shown otherwise even if it is 'second hand evidence'. The inference from all the critiques quite clearly suggest that they have seen it applied, and reject it as a failure.
Nice try WJA. A small shift again of the argument.
However, because I'm trying to educate you I suggest your read the following.
"In the actual encounter, Dembski began by overviewing his methods for design detection as developed in The Design Inference. He then  sketched how these methods apply to biology  and why he thought they provided in-principle objections to undirected natural causes, including Kauffman's self-organizational processes, generating the key item that his methods detect, namely, specified complexity or complex specified information. Dembski developed his argument as follows: the only way for self-organizational, Darwinian, and other naturalistic methods to generate specified complexity is by in essence dissolving the actual complexity (or improbability). What seems highly improbable is therefore no longer improbable once one knows the right naturalistic process. Dembski indicated that there were good reasons to think that no such reduction of complexity or improbability would be possible in the case of systems like the bacterial flagellum.  He also adverted to some of the techniques developed in his forthcoming book titled "No Free Lunch" for computing the probabilities of discrete combinatorial objects like the bacterial flagellum. "
http://www.arn.org/docs/pjweekly/pj_weekly_011119.htm
This suggests that a book is about to appear mysteriously out of the ether...
So, go read the book  "No Free Lunch: Why Specified Complexity Cannot Be Purchased Without Intelligence". Unless you think it's not 'published'.
Oh, look it has been published! It's a miracle.
As far back as post 29 the answer was provided for one and all by SLP who wrote:
"Unfortunately, Dembski and his "explanatory" filter are more hot air than substance. He has claiming to have 'discovered' desing (sic) in nature by using the 'filter', but for some strange reason, he has yet to publish his amazing discovery. he said he was going to do it in "Mere Creation", then he said it would be iun (sic)  No Free Lunch  - so tell us , IS IT actually in his newest collection of apocryphal tall tales, or is is (sic) just assumed that he has done so?"
The simple answer is 'yes he has'.
This mystery book exists. It's even been criticised by people on your side "In his book, No Free Lunch,  Dembski presents the bacterial flagellum as the premier example of a biological system that, because he judges it to be both complex and specified, must have been actualized by the form-conferring action of an unembodied intelligent agent. However, a critical examination of Dembski?s case reveals that, 1) is is built  on unorthodox and inconsistently applied definitions of both ?complex? and ?specified,? 2) it employs a concept of the flagellum?s assembly that is radically out of touch with contemporary genetics and developmental biology, and 3)  it fails to demonstrate  that the flagellum is either ?complex? or ?specified? in the manner required to make his case. If the bacterial flagellum is supposed to demonstrate ID, then ID is a failure."
http://www.iscid.org/ubbcgi/ultimate...=1;t=000057;p=
As I said, people on your side are out there criticising him all the time. How could they unless he had published?
Also, it is one thing to say that he hasn't attempted to apply the filter, then to say that he has attempted to apply it and failed.
;) Game, set and match