That I have failed to prove it at all is only according to the atheist worldview. A neutral, agnostic worldview may think they are somewhat comparable. The Judeo Christian worldview that is taught to many students by their parents would think that evolution (happenstance origins) isn't in any way close to ID. So we have two one sided worldviews, and one neutral one. Since a free exploration of ideas would give students the most complete picture, would interfere less with altering their worldviews that were most likely formed in the home, and would be most likely to teach them HOW to think, why are we dangerously close (thanks John Jones) to allowing one - one sided worldview to completely suppress another worldview in the science classroom? The answer of course, is politics. Science has become more and more politicized as the domestic federal government grows larger and larger. The government that once had limited powers has become more and more discoverers of emergencies and crisies, that entitle us all, particularly organizations, to a share of federal pie. Science has gladly hopped on board - they have the measuring devices, the microscopes and telescopes. 
In 1989, the budget of the National Institutes of Health was $7.9 billion. In 2005 it's $28.8 billion. This is one of many government agencies that science "serves", and others have fat budgets as well. Leaf through Science magazine and you'll see that the maintanance of government spending on science is one of it's biggest preoccupations. To maintain it, science peddles hope and fear. Of course, some say that religion peddles the same thing. Science would rather not compete with it, and it certainly doesn't help when the new concept of ID, armed with the latest scientific discoveries, comes along questioning established scientific "theories" that keep them at the highest rung of the hope and fear ladder.
It used to be that religion and science didn't compete, and they shouldn't today. But they do, and there's only one difference from yesterday and today - government money.