Well, stated that way, there is no problem with religion and evolution co-existing. Many evolutionary biologists are religious. Dr. Kenneth Miller of Brown U. is a practicing Christian and a respected evolutionary biologist. He engages in debates from time to time with creationists and ID proponents. There is little problem with the theories of evolution and most main-line religions around the world.
The real debate is between a minority of United States fundamentalist christians and science in general. You have seen on this board that even though the theories of evolution are biological, several creationists have insisted that somehow there is a grand theory of evolution that includes the origin of the universe, the galaxies, the solar system, the planets, the earth, and life on earth. Typicaly, creationists claim that they don't oppose science but only evolution - and by that they mean cosmology, astronomy, astrophysics, planetary physics, biochemistry, geology, most of physics (relativity, quantum mechanics, thermodynamics), genetics, molecular biology, population genetics, embryology (evo-devo), paleontology, paleoanthropology, and on and on. What is not opposed is trivial and limited that data upon which scientific theory is built, not the theories.
So to answer the question can religion and evolution co-exist? Without question. Evolutionary scientists do not study matters outside the domain of science. Science is naturalistic - methodological naturalism - and cannot observe and study the supernatural. The supernatural cannot be quantified. I have yet to see an equation that represents the power of God. That is not to claim that things outside of science do not exist or are not valid and important. It is just that science is not the proper tool for the study of such matters. Questions of faith and morals fall in other domains - theology and religion, for example.
Can creationism and science co-exist? Probably not. But the problem is not with science. It is with creationism. Creationism establishes its conclusions before any evidence is examined based on "divine revelation." The problem arises when science, without regard to religion, uses the scientific method to arrive at conclusions that cannot be reconciled with creationist conclusions. This makes science the evil work of Satan, and it means that scientists are trying to escape responsibility to a god based on primitive mythology.