No, it wasn't. Given the number of scientists one might assume that at least one would confuse his science with his religion. It seems that according to AIG, 182 actually do. I really have to commend AIG in that they did not list "Dr." Kent Hovind, "Dr." Carl Baugh, "Dr." Don Patton. However, the AIG does list Thomas Barnes who's highest earned degree is an MS in physics, his Sc.D being honorary from his undergraduate, Christian university. Clifford Burdick has a "degree" from a non-university (as described in the mimeographed bulletin of the "University of Physical Sciences", from which Burdick claimed his degree: "'The University is not an educational institution, but a society of individuals of common interest for the advancement of physical science. There are no campus, professors or tuition fee."). Harold Slusher has an honorary degree from a Bible college with only a 1/2 man graduate science department in addition to his "degree" from Columbia Pacific University a non-accredited correspondence school that promises a degree in less than a year. I do note that Clifford Burdick is listed on list of deceased scientists who believed in a creator.
I presume that the rest of the "scientists" listed by AIG actually have the PhDs that AIG claims of all 182 listed.
I invite you to compare that list to the Steve list, now at 720+ scientists named Steve who accept evolution as the correct explanation for the observed diversity of life. The name "Steve" (and variations thereof) comprises about 1% of the population. The percentage of qualified scientists with that name cannot be far from the norm. The Steve list was initially composed of scientists with PhD degrees biology, geology, paleontology, or a related scientific field. However, there are also scientists in fields such as cosmology and astrophysics that are signatories as well as other fields with an interest in evolutionary theory. For example, Stephen Hawking has signed the Steve list.
I invite you to find bogus and inappropriate degrees on the Steve list. I am sure that the NCSE would be appreciative of your efforts. Hopefully you will have a more difficult time than I did in identifying bogus degrees.
Oh, yes. In my experience, creationist scientists were always creationist long before they were scientists. On the other hand, there are lots of scientists who were once creationists, before they became scientists. As many polls have shown, the more educated a person becomes, the less likely it is that he/she is a creationist.