Thanks Patriot for the well researched response.
Although I am not a gun rights advocate, I am also not anti-gun and in the spirit of trying to get the two sides of this issue to reach some sort of understanding, here is what I believe to be the major points of those who support a ban on assult weapons.
First of all, I do agree that the definition of assult weapons is a little strange, and it essentially boils down to the guns that look scary.
However, the spirit of the law was to try to ban weapons whose main purpose was militaristic in nature. That is, guns that are able to be fired rapidly, have a large magazine, and reasonable stopping power. Thus, although the ban would not eliminate all of the "dangerous" weapons ( I assume that an M1, the rifle that beat the Nazis, would be legal) it does cover a lot of them.
Of course, most 2nd amendment rights supporters would say that all this doesn't matter, it doesn't matter what purpose the gun serves, it is unconstitutional to infringe upon the rights of Americans to own any gun they want, no matter the purpose.
What gun control advocates would say, however, is that the constitution says 'arms' not guns, and it becomes the job of the goverment to determine what was meant my this. I think that most gun control advocates would agree that the second amendment probably did not intend for people to be able to buy chemical or biological weapons, for example. And, I for one, hope that is not what they meant, particularly in light of the recent war on terrorism.
A common remark is "why would it matter if I had a nuclear weapon if I am a law abiding citizen and would never use it against my neighbor?" The problem is that we don't know what the intention of everyone is, and there are certainly terrorists in this country now who are American citizens and would use such powerful weapons against usif they were able to acquire them.
Of course a semi-automatic .223 caliber rifle is not the same as a chemical weapon, but the point is that (I think) most people don't think that you should be able to own absolutely any weapon that you want, so one must attempt to define what is too dangerous for ordinary citizens to own. 
I don't think that I covered all of your points, Patriot, but this is getting long, so I will cut this off here, and I hope to get a response from you. I will be interested in your thoughts.
-Dan