Well, now, here's the thing:
A hypothesis of special creation of all things (such as is described in the bible) is inconsistent with the evidence we can elicit from living things today. For instance, there's the amount of non-functional DNA we share with other creatures, in particular the other apes. With shared functional DNA, now, one could make a case for economy of design, but deliberately putting the same broken genes and garbage DNA into two entirely seperate species?
Then there's the fact that some creatures have far better 'designed' bits than others for no readily apparent reason. A good example is the octopus eye, whose retina is supplied with blood from the rear rather than the front, both anchoring the retina more securely (no detached retina problems) and avoiding the 'blind spot' mammalian eyes possess. There's no reason at all for a designer capable of making an octupus to use the inferior mammalian design.
Then there's the issue of vestigial features. Vestigial doesn't necessarily mean 'useless', more properly it describes something that is 'overengineered' for the purpose it currently serves, and often looks very much like a crippled version of a feature possessed by some other species. Ostrich wings, for example, may be useful for balancing when running, or in mating rituals, but they don't need to be wings in order to serve those purposes. Their complex and delicate internal structure is clearly 'designed' to allow flight, but their stunted development and the practical impossibility of such a big bird achieving self-powered flight make them a vestigial structure. Again, what rationale can be made for this being the work of a designer?
Then there's the fossil record. Try as one might to twist the evidence to fit a biblical flood, it just won't go. Paleontologists have found spider tracks sandwiched in sandstone layers. Imagine, if you can, the delicate impressions of a spider's footsteps surviving a deluge sufficient to suspend and deposit yards and yards of sand atop them. Hydrodynamic sorting of fossils, or burial order, doesn't fit either, since it requires that we pretend all dinosaurs were large and slow moving (they weren't) and that all mammals are small, agile and fast-moving (they aren't).
On and on it goes. If we take evolution off the table completely and look at the evidence before us, we have no explanation that fits. Special creation simply doesn't add up. With all creation myths falsified, what are we supposed to do? Just pretend the history of life on earth doesn't matter, or should be ignored?
Evolution isn't what you come up with when you apply atheist thinking. Evolution is what you come up with when you discount all the extant hypotheses that don't fit the facts, be they religiously inspired or otherwise.
Now, you may hold your hand up and complain that we're not admitting the possibility of some kind of divine guiding hand steering or helping evolution. And that's fair enough; we generally don't, for two different reasons:
First, it doesn't really add anything to the theory; it doesn't increase its power to explain what we see. So while you can of course choose to believe that's what's happening, it doesn't have any scientific value.
Secondly, there's arguably some merit in the attitude that religion has had its chance and blown it. For thousands of years religions have claimed to bear upon their backs the infallible word of god. Now, if the bible had been saying all along - centuries before the technology existed to verify it - that god coaxed organisms into evolving from simpler organisms over millions of years, that would be compelling evidence that the bible was accurate and divinely inspired, since it would contain accurate predictions (which no man could have made) about what we should find when we look into our DNA or beneath the ground. But it doesn't make those predictions. So why should we now pay attention when Intelligent Design evangelists do a 6000-year-too-late handbrake turn and invent a new faith-based explanation for the evidence? After all, they have no divine mandate to do so - it's the bible that's supposedly the word of god; they're just making stuff up as they go along.