no it is not. Darwinists say that evolution happens by way of selection of random variants.....what I'm asking for is for science to make sure the variants don't arise nonrandomly. I'm looking for experiments on animals that rule out heritable, adaptive variation.
Here you go.
that's not a controlled experiment. try again.
How do you carbon-date a rock?
you don't...you break open the "rock" and carbon date the soft, flexible parts that somehow survived for 100 million years without turning to stone. (It would also help if you broke the big bones open and looked for such tissue...something science evidently never has done either until Mary S. did it a couple years ago.
Apart from the 'horizontally instead of vertically' part which I didn't understand - 
I say new, beneficial traits arise across a given population at the same time because the traits arise from within each creature. Likewise genes may be transferred from one species to another horizontally, without selection.
“Scientists pick holes in Darwin moth theory” by Robert Matthews in the Sunday Telegraph (March, 1999)
Nothing from the New York Times? I'll check this out though.
I'm not sure what you mean by the other side of the debate, though. ID? EAM? YEC?
anti-darwinian.
SS: Show me one instance of a genetic mistake (random mutation/copying error) that that created a beneficial body part.
What do you mean by 'part'? If you're asking for an example of a single mutation that created an arm or a leg where none existed before, then you're asking for evidence of something that the ToE in no way shape or form says is possible. 
ok....I'll save that.
Sickle-cell is a pretty good example, though, if you're prepared to accept blood as a 'body part'. 
I'm not....besides, sickle cell adds nothing benefical in the way of phenotype. We've been over this here. Have anything else?
Strictly speaking, accumulation of mutations alone isn't what creates a new species; so long as a species interbreeds well, 
well since you can't show me one case of speciation, with backup that the old and the new species can't interbreed and produce viable offspring, we'll just assume that it can't be done at all.
SS: Show me one instance of a mutation that formed a new organ or limb.
Not possible, and not predicted or required by the ToE either, so it's a strawman.
cool, ok...we agree there. Do you think a mutation can create a partial organ or limb?...like say 1/100th of one -- and be selected for?
Pretty much every experiment ever carried out in a petri-dish; take your pick :) Also the revisited peppered moth experiment I linked to earlier.
those are not animals and it's not RMNS....it's simply a fluid, adaptive genome at work. If RMNS worked in the petri dish then it should work by way of controlled experiments on actual animals -- which ToE scientists refuse to do.
SS:  show me set of skeletons that transition from ape to man by way of small modifications.  
I can show you skeletons showing the transition from ape ancestors to man, if that's any use? 
yes, it is of use -- show me.
SS: Explain to me why we don’t see humans or dogs or alligators with accidental wings forming. (If the possibility was there for random mutations to produce wings on reptiles or mammals in the past, then it should also be happening now.)  
Oh dear; where do I even start?
Ok, look, the ToE doesn't say that the possibility was ever there for random mutation to suddenly make wings appear out of nowhere. It just doesn't.
Ha! do you agree that the first winged animals came from non-winged animals or not? If so, what's the difference?