You mentioned here that same-sex marriage may have benefits which outweigh its "abnormal" nature. I must point out that even if we consider it abnormal, there is no reason to suggest that abnormal is somehow bad. In a free and equal society, abnormal deserves all the rights and privleges thet normal receives. Any benefits that exist in allowing same-sex marriage aren't being weighed down by abnormality.
[QUOTE]The concept of equality is a lot easier to conceptualize than to put into practice. We, as a society, preach equality in principle, but practice inequality in all aspects of our lives. As I mentioned above, the tax code is a great example of institutionalized inequality. Businesses practice institutionalized inequality daily. For example, I am considered, by my employer, to be an HCI (highly compensated individual). As a result, I pay a much higher rate for the same healthcare coverage that my fellow employees get. Is that fair? I guess as I get older, I worry less about abstract concepts that sound good in theory but don't exist in practice.[QUOTE]
Well, I won't argue that we will never be truly equal, and I won't argue that equality is the answer to everything, but I will argue that equality is worth striving for and that equality does exist in practice, it is just so ingrained into our mindset that we forget it is there. Compare US law to the laws of Europe before the revolution. In Europe there existed classes of nobles with extra rights under the law as well as kings and royalty with even more rights. As you went higher up in class, you'd get more and more political power. In America, we all have one vote. We all have an equal ability to participate in government. It is true that we use that vote to choose someone to make decisions for us in the government, but our ability to participate in government set a new precedent in equality. Consider even slaves or women's rights. These are cases where equality won out not just in theory but in practice. I will admit that we cannot simply just make everyone equal in every way, but we do our best to give them equal rights and equal represenation. In the case of same-sex marriage, I can think of no reason why we should not extend the same rights that opposite-sex couples have to same-sex couples (and plenty of reasons why we should).
